 Have you ever wondered, what is phonetics? Have you ever wished that you could pronounce  the English phonetic alphabet more clearly and confidently? Well, in this video, these  are exactly the things I'm going to help you to do.  So phonetics is essentially the study and classification of speech sounds. And we have  something called the International Phonetic Alphabet Chart, which is an internationally  recognised set of phonetic symbols that was developed in the late 19th century. And we  use them to be very specific about the pronunciation of a word in whichever language we're working  on. And some people find them to be the most accurate and the most reliable way to work  on their pronunciation, because you can go to a good dictionary, like the Oxford Dictionary  or Cambridge Dictionary, which are both online, and you can see the phonetic symbols and it'll  tell you how to pronounce that part of that word. So they're a really great resource.  And what I thought would might be useful, even though the internet is filled with videos  about this sort of stuff, is just to sort of contain it all in one video and give you  those phonetic symbols and make the sound so that you can practice and get more confident  with them. And then you can go to a dictionary and if you see that symbol, you know which  sound to use. So here they are.  So we're going to look at the consonant sounds. And when we're talking about sounds in isolation,  they're sometimes referred to as phonemes. So here are the phonemes for each of the consonants  used in standard British English.  m as in mum  n as in nun  n as in song  f as in for  v as in vine  s as in sad  z as in zeal  sh as in shoe  j as in measure  th as in this  f as in thing  t as in to  d as in do  k as in king  g as in go  p as in put  b as in but  w as in war  j as in young  r as in red  j as in jam  ch as in chew  h as in how  l as in lee  l as in feel  Here are the vowels.  i as in kit  e as in dress  u as in strut  f as in foot  a as in trap  o as in lot  u as in schwa  u as in goose  o as in thought  r as in nurse  r as in bath  e as in fleece  e as in face  i as in price  oi as in choice  o as in goat  au as in mouth  i as in near  e as in square  u as in cure  e as in layer  i as in liar  oi as in lawyer  o as in lower  our as in our  So if you want to learn more about vowel and consonant pronunciation in British English,  then why don't you click here and download two free resources that I've created  that get to the heart of some of the most difficult vowel and consonant pronunciation in British English.  But if you'd like to continue learning more about phonetics  and you really want to improve all of those vowels and all of those consonants  in terms of your English pronunciation,  then why don't you click here and have a look at a published e-book that was released last year  that I wrote that contains absolutely all of these vowels and all of these consonants  along with the phonetic transcription.  And it covers absolutely everything you need to know with pictures and diagrams.  It's got 12 hours of audio.  It takes you through all of the typical habits and mistakes that people make.  And it's got a huge section on intonation as well.  So with the aid of that book, you'll really get your pronunciation and your intonation improving  and you'll feel much more confident and much more fluent in terms of your speech in English.  So click here and have a look at that now.  Just before you do that, however, if you want to find this video again,  consider clicking like and why not subscribe to this channel?  Because I post weekly videos here at 8.30pm GMT local London time.  So I hope to see you here next week. 