 So having taken a QLED approach to the opening statement and having explored  the patient's thoughts, worries, hopes and the psychosocial impact, often the  patient will have disclosed a situation that has been difficult for them,  upsetting, painful, distressing. This is an opportunity to show sympathy or preferably  empathy. Sympathy is the expression of sorrow for a patient's situation,  for example, I'm really sorry to hear about your dad and his death.  Sympathy does have some value in a consultation, it is showing that you're listening,  it's showing you that you're a sympathetic person and therefore it can contribute  to building or maintaining rapport.  The way in which you do it is important, it's very important for the patient to actually  finish what they're saying when they're describing the distressing situation.  You've got to wait for that natural pause where you can come out with your sympathetic statement  and most importantly, having done so, you must stop and allow the patient to acknowledge your  sympathy. One of the things that I often hear when they're listening to recordings  where trainees have realised that they need to show sympathy but under the pressure of time,  it becomes gabbled and uncaring. So you'll hear something like, oh doctor and then dad died,  it was such a terrible time. The patient starts crying and the GP then overtalks the crying  patient, oh I'm very sorry to hear about your dad, so now let's just talk about your low back  pain and how that's been affecting you. Of course this sounds uncaring, it's very much formulaic,  it's not actually contributing anything to the consultation and may actually damage rapport.  Empathy is actually more powerful than sympathy and it's used in the similar situations,  but empathy is about you expressing your insight into the patient's situation  and the impact it's having. So an example might be, gosh with your dad dying,  I can really appreciate that's had a massive impact, not only for you but for your family.  Again followed by the pause, allowing the patient to acknowledge that empathetic statement.  What empathy is doing is showing that you really are listening to the patient, that you understand  their situation and very powerfully contributes to the development and the maintenance of rapport.  It's through that understanding or that perception of your understanding that  is very much going to contribute to achieving a shared decision making.  So we've mentioned rapport, so what does this really mean? It's about achieving a comfortable  relationship with a patient within a consultation, such that the patient may feel able to disclose  something that is painful, embarrassing, something that's difficult to talk about,  that they wouldn't normally have mentioned. So how do you achieve it? Well you've got to think  of it in terms of verbal and non-verbal approaches. In terms of the non-verbal approaches,  it really begins as the patient walks through the door, the eye contact, the smile, the welcome,  the open body posture, showing that you're actively listening to a patient,  your facial expression conveying that you're interested in them and what's unfolding.  Verbally, in terms of establishing rapport, it focuses about being interested in them and their  situation and that often relates of course to that exploration of their thoughts,  worries, hopes and psychosocial impact. It's about really listening to what they're saying,  so cue handling becomes very important. It's about conveying your understanding of their situation  and this is why empathy is so important. Of course, you've got to be taking a positive  approach, such that the patient feels that you're on their side. Another thing to consider  is that in terms of maintaining rapport, it's important not to surprise a patient.  So always remember to signpost, explain why you're asking, explain why you're examining  and through a patient feeling that you're interested in them, listening to them,  understanding them and are out there to help them, are on their side, you're very much going to have  that comfortable relationship that is rapport. 