 Welcome to Pharmacy Prep. Here I like to give you simple techniques how to learn medical  terms easily. So most medical terms can be three segments. The one, the middle one is  a root. Generally root is a subject, for example body parts, systems etc. Before root there is a  prefix. Prefix is a descriptive such as color, location, directions, size, amount etc. And after  the root is suffix which is the ending one. And generally it is a meanings such as disease,  disorders, conditions, procedures and processes etc. goes into suffix. So here most medical terms  have root, prefix and suffix. Examples hypoxemia. Hypoxemia means low oxygen blood levels in the  blood. So hypo refers to low, oxy for oxygen, emia in the blood. So now let's start with some  important roots that are used for human body. So here first one is cephalo. Cephalo is head,  cerv or cervical, neck, thoraco or thoracic, chest, homeo, body, derm, skin, hemo, blood,  pelvic, myo or sarco, muscle, cyto, cell, peritone, peritoneum, osteo, bone. Next medical terms for root for organs.  Entero, entestine, cholecyst, gallbladder, hepato, liver, gastro, stomach, nephro, kidney, adrenal,  adrenal gland, masto or memo, breast, cardio, heart, angio, blood vessels, esophago, esophagus,  tracheo, trachea, thyroid, thyroid, glands, thymo, thymus. Next we go to the prefixes.  So here are prefixes for colors. Chloro, green, chlorophyll, cyano, blue, cyanobacteria, erythro,  red, erythrocytes, leuco, white, leukocytes, melano, black, melanin, flavo or xantho, yellow,  flavivirus. Chloro prefix is green, example chlorophyll. Cyano prefix is blue, cyanobacteria.  Erythro prefix is red, erythrocytes, red blood cells. Flav, yellow, flavivirus. Leuco, white,  leukocytes. Here is the question alert for leuco. Leucocytes are also known as,  you can enter your answers in the description below. Answer is white blood cells. Leucocytes  also known as white blood cells. Melano, black, melanin. The prefixes that has size or amount.  Hyper, more than usual. Hypo, less than usual. Micro, small or invisible to the naked eye.  Macro, large or visible to the naked eye. Prefix hyper, which is much more than usual.  Here is the examples of hyper prefix are hyper tension, high blood pressure. Hyperkalemia,  high potassium level in the blood. Hyper trophy, increase in the size of the cells. Hyperplasia,  increase in the number of cells. Here is a question alert for hyper. Hyperkalemia means  potassium levels in the blood more than 5.2 millimoles per liter. Next prefix hypo,  which is less than usual or normal. Here is the examples for hypo prefixes. Hypo tension,  low blood pressure. Hypokalemia, low potassium. Hypoglycemia, low blood glucose. Hyponatremia,  low sodium. Hypo also refers under or beneath, such as hypodermic needles like hypodermic,  below the skin. Next prefix is or relates to speed or size.  Brady, Brady refers to slow. Tacky, rapid or fast. This, difficult or pain. Zero or dry.  Here the Brady prefix is slow. Example of Brady prefix is Bradycardia, slow heart rate.  Bradykinesia, slow movement. Bradypnea, slow breathing. Next prefix is tacky, which refers  to rapid. Here is the example that begins with a tacky. Tackycardia, rapid heart rate.  The next prefix is a dys, also referred as difficult or pain. Here are the examples  that prefixes that begin with dys or dyspnea. Difficulty in breathing. Dyspepsia, difficulty  in digestion. Dysmenorrhea, painful menstruation. Dysgaisea, bad taste in the mouth. Dystonia,  loss of muscle tone. Here is the question alert for the dys prefix. Dysgaisea is related to  taste. Next prefix is zero, dry. Here is the example that begin with xera prefix or  xerophthalmia, dry eye. Xerostomia, dry mouth. Xeroderma, dry skin. Xerakilia, which is dry  lips. Here is the question alerts for xera prefix. What class of medications cause xerostomia  side effect or dry mouth side effect? Anticholinergics or muscarinic blockers, they cause  dry mouth, dry eye side effects. Next prefix is or relates to location or direction.  Inter, between. Intra, inner or within. Endo, inside. Exo, outside. Peri, around. Supra,  above or over. Sub, below or beneath or under. So here the prefix inter is between. Here are the  examples of prefixes that begin with inter. Interstitial fluid, fluid between cells.  Intercostal, between ribs. Next prefix is intra, which refers to inner or within.  Here are the examples of prefix that begins with intra. Intravascular, in the blood vessels.  Intramuscular, in the muscles. Intrathecal, in the spine. Intraarticular, in bone joints.  Intracranial, inside cranium. Here are the examples of intravascular fluid. Intravascular  fluid refers to the blood. Intracellular fluid means inside the cells fluid. However, interstitial  is a between the cells fluid. Next question alert for intra. Intravascular fluid is  whole blood volume. Next prefix is endo, inside. Here are the examples of prefixes that begins  with endo. Endogenous, inside the body. Endometriosis, inflammation of endometrium.  Endothelial cells, inside the cell lining of the blood vessels. Here are the examples of endo,  which refers to inner or inside. Endometrium, which is the inner layer of uterus.  Endocardium, inner layer of the heart tissues. Here is the question alert for endo. The main  type of cells found in the inside lining of the blood vessels or lymph vessels and in the heart  are endothelial cells. Next prefix is peri. Peri refers to around. Periodontal, periodontal is  around the teeth. Periorbital, edema, around the eyes swelling. Perinatal, around the time of birth.  Here is the question alert for prefix peri. The buildup of fluid in the space around the heart is  pericardial effusion. Next supra prefix refers to above. Supraventricular  tachycardia. The tachycardia that happens above the ventricles. Next prefixes are numbers,  which is numericals. Mono refers to single or one. Di, double, two, triple, three,  quad, quadruple, four, oligo, a few, poly is many. Here is the question alert for quadri.  Quadri refers to quadriplegia. Quadriplegia means paralysis of all four limbs.  Next are suffix. Suffix is end of the word after the root. So here are the examples of suffixes  that are signs and symptoms like algea. Algea refers to pain. Itis, inflammation.  Rhea, flow or discharge. Regia, excessive flow or discharge. Pnea, deficiency or phobia,  excessive fear. So here the suffix that is algea, which is pain. Here the examples that  suffix end with the algeas are myalgia, which is muscle pain. Arthralgia, joint pain. Neurologia,  neuropathic pain. Mostalgia, breast pain. Next suffix is itis, inflammation. Here the examples  of medical terms that end with the itis or inflammation. Arthritis, joint pain.  Gingivitis, tooth gum pain. Conjunctivitis, red eye. Cystitis, bladder infection. Cellulitis, skin  infection. Next suffix is rhea, refers to flow or discharge. Here are the examples of the rhea  suffix or diarrhea, watery stools. Galacteria, milky nipple discharge.  Cialuria, excessive saliva. Rhinuria, runny nose. Next suffix is a pnea or refers to decrease or  deficiency. Here are the examples of pnea suffix or thrombocytopenia, too low platelets count in  the blood. Neutropenia, low level of neutrophil count in the blood. Leukopenia, lower than the  normal leukocyte in the blood. Osteopenia, lower than normal bone mass or bone marrow density.  Here is the question alert for the pnea or neutropenia. Neutropenia is  absolute neutrophil count less than 1500 millimetres cubed. Next phobia, which is abnormal fear.  Specific phobia, an intense fear of specific object. Social phobia, intense fear of social  activities. Clustrophobia, intense fear of closed spaces. Agoraphobia, intense fear of being in open  spaces. Suffix r, procedures or general. Ectomy, removal of or excision of a specific organ.  Emea means in the blood. Lysis is breakdown. Genesis, formation. Homo, tumour. And Megali  is irregular enlargement. Here is the example of suffix ectomy, which is surgically referred,  removed. Example is hysterectomy. Removal of uterus. Vasectomy is vast difference is removed.  Mastectomy, breast removed. Colectomy, colon removed. Here is the question alert for ectomy  is vasectomy is vast difference. The tube that carries sperm from each testicle is cut and  sealed. Next suffix is emea, which refers to in the blood. Here are the examples of suffixes that  end with the emea. Uremia, which is urea in the blood. Anything in the emea is in the blood.  So uricemia, uric acid in the blood. Septicemia, bacteria in the blood. Ischemia, low oxygen in  the blood circulation. Next suffix is lysis, which is also referred as lytic, which means breakdown.  Here are the examples of suffixes that end with the lysis are glycolysis, glucose breakdown,  to water and carbon dioxide. Hemolytic, breakdown of the blood cells. Thrombolytics,  breakdown of the blood clot. Here is the next suffix is genesis, which refers to formation.  Examples of suffixes that are genesis is angiogenesis, formation of new blood capillaries.  Glycogenesis, glucose to glycogen formation. Gluconeogenesis, formation of glucose from  non-carbohydrates. Here the question alert for the genesis is gluconeogenesis is formation of  glucose from non-carbohydrate sources. Next is oma, which refers to tumor. That's not a good  news. And carcinoma. Carcinoma refers to cancer of epithelial cells. Sarcoma, tissue cancer.  Lymphoma, immune cells cancer. Melanoma, skin cancer. Myeloma, blood cancer. Osteoma, bone  cancers. So finally here we have a one more suffix that is megaly, which refers to enlargement.  Here is examples of the terms that are end with the megaly. Hepatomegaly, liver enlargement.  Splenomegaly, spleen enlargement. Acromegaly, the pituitary gland produces excessive growth  hormones is called acromegaly. So here question alert for megaly. Acromegaly is caused by what?  Which is an excessive growth of hormone in the body. Pituitary gland production is referred as  acromegaly. Hope this terminology helps you to learn easily most of the most terms.  If you like this video you can click on the like sign or subscribe this channel at Pharmacy Prep  or you can visit our website pharmacyprep.com. We offer the best preparation for the pharmacy exams.  Thank you. See you soon. 