 Rydyn ni wedi siarad am rywfaint o weithgareddau sy'n edrych ar beth bynnag y bydd cyfrifiadau'n bwysig,  ac rydyn ni wedi siarad am rhai modelau ffurfiol, rhai modelau strwythurol,  o ran sut mae pobl yn mynd o'r cyfrifiad i'r enw, sut mae pobl yn cymryd y wybodaeth ffisiol hwnnw ac yn gwneud pethau gyda'i gilydd.  I ddiwedd yr wythnos diwethaf, rydyn ni wedi siarad am rywfaint o ddatblygiad neuropsigol,  a beth sy'n digwydd pan, oherwydd darnau cyfrifiadau neu dyddiadau, mae pobl yn parhau i ystyried amgylcheddau,  a beth y bydd hynny'n golygu ar gyfer ein theoriau am sut mae hynny'n cael ei wneud yn y cyfrifiad,  ac rydyn ni'n mynd i wneud rhywfaint o beth yma ar gyfer gwyliau.  Felly, o ran yr hyn rydyn ni wedi dysgu ar hyn o bryd, beth y byddwn ni'n ei gobeithio mewn rhai cyfrifiadau cyfrifiadau?  Rydyn ni wedi siarad am sut y bydd y cyfrifiadau efallai'n bwysig, ac rydyn ni wedi siarad am ein model,  sy'n dechrau rhannu rhai o'r pethau gwahanol y gallwn ei wneud gyda'r cyfrifiadau,  a rhai o'r prosesau gwahanol yr ydyn ni'n mynd trwy, i analysu'r wybodaeth bywydol,  ac i ddod â pethau fel adnoddiaeth.  Felly, yr hyn rydyn ni'n ei gobeithio yw bod, mewn rhai o gyfrifiadau cyfrifiadau,  rhai o'r prosesau hynny, pethau i gyd gyda'r cyfrifiadau,  yn ymwneud â rhai o'r pethau eraill, yn ymwneud â phethau,  neu yn ymwneud â phethau penodol o gyfrifiadau cyfrifiadau.  Ac yn wir, dyna'r hyn rydyn ni'n ei ddod, ac dyna'r hyn rydyn ni'n ei gydnabod fel prosopagnosia.  Felly, cofiwch, agnosia, rydyn ni'n siarad am ymwneud â chyfrifiadau,  yn enwedig ymwneud â chyfrifiadau trwy sefydliad,  nid oherwydd bod pobl yn bwysig, neu bod pobl angen glasau,  ond oherwydd bod rhywbeth wedi digwydd i'r rhanau o'r bryn  sy'n ein galluogi ni i ddod â'r wybodaeth ffisiol  a'i gysylltu â'r enw obiect neu'r enw obiect.  Felly, mae prosopagnosia, sy'n dod o'r grif, rwy'n credu, ar gyfer ffeisiau,  yn ddefnyddiad penderfynol ar gyfer cyfathrebu ffeisiau.  Felly, gofynnwch rhai o'r pethau rydyn ni'n gael eu hyrwyddo  pan roedden ni'n siarad am agnosiau bywydau ffisiol.  Nid yw'n unig beth bywydau ffisiol sylfaenol.  Nid yw oherwydd nad ydyn nhw'n gwybod beth yw ein ffeisiau a'r hyn y byddai'n ei wneud.  Nid yw oherwydd bod rhywbeth yn iawn gyda'r uwch.  Mae'n rhywbeth arbennig i'w wneud gyda'r ffision,  ac mae'n rhywbeth sy'n gallu cael ei ddiddorol o agnosiau bywydau ffisiol,  ychydig am y tro.  Felly, weithiau, nid ydyn nhw'n gwybod unrhyw beth, gan gynnwys ffeisiau,  ond mae llawer o ffeisiau  lle gall y bobl wneud ddiddorol ar unrhyw bethau eraill.  Maen nhw'n gallu cydnabod ystafellau o ddŵr a ffeisiau o dŵr,  ond maen nhw'n ymwneud â gydnabod ffeisiau.  Felly, maen nhw'n ddim yn gallu cydnabod eu ffrindiau a'u teulu,  efallai hefyd eu hunain yn y myfyrwyr.  Felly, gall yna fod yn ddiddorol, yn ymwneud â'r amgylchedd anodd i'w byw.  Felly, y ffaith ei fod yn gallu cael ei ddiddorol o ddiddorol obiect,  y ffaith y gallwch chi weithio gael pobl sy'n ddiddorol ar obiectau,  ond sy'n iawn gyda ffeisiau,  a gallwch chi weithio gael pobl sy'n ddiddorol ar ffeisiau,  ond sy'n iawn gyda phobl eraill,  yw'r hyn rydyn ni'n ei feddwl o fel ddiddorol ddiddorol.  Felly, efallai y gwnaethoch chi gwrdd y term honno yn y blaen.  Rydyn ni'n cymryd ymgyrchu ar y ddiddorol ddiddorol.  Beth mae hynny'n golygu?  Mae'n golygu pan fydd rhywun yn cael ei ddiddorol ar un peth,  ond yn ddiddorol ar yr un peth,  ac mae grwpiau gwahanol o ffasiant yn dangos patern gwahanol.  Ac mae hynny'n ddiddorol iawn, yn cyfathrebu gwybod,  bod ddau rhan gwahanol o'r ddiddorol,  neu ddau mecanismau ddiddorol gwahanol yn ymwneud â nhw,  sy'n gallu eu rhannu.  Dyma'r peth sy'n bwysig.  Mae'n ddiddorol, ond yn fwy fawr,  a dyma'r peth a ddangos yn y blaen.  Mae oherwydd bod dau pethau gwahanol yn digwydd.  Felly, mewn ddiddorol gwahanol,  rydyn ni'n gwneud y byddwn yn ddangos  bod ddau grwpiau,  mae grwpiau sy'n dda i ffasiant A,  a phosib,  ac yn dda i ffasiant B.  Ac mae grwp arall sy'n dangos ffasiant gwahanol.  Grwp arall sy'n dda i ffasiant B,  ond yn dda i ffasiant A.  objects but bad at faces, and object agnosics can be very bad at objects but okay at faces.  So there's this kind of dissociation again, think about, we were talking about a functional  dissociation when we were looking at experiments, and this is more of a neuropsychological  double dissociation.  So it's a nice way for us to say, okay, this is good evidence that something special is  happening with faces in the brain.  Just like agnosia, most cases come about because of stroke, because of selective brain  damage in parts of the visual cortex.  Sometimes people have other sorts of cerebral accidents, and there's recent interest in  developmental as well as acquired causes.  So what do I mean?  I mean, not everybody who gets it had brain damage because of an accident.  Some people seem to grow up at being specifically poor at faces.  So there's a bit of a debate in the literature about whether these things are the same, whether  developmental prosopagnosia really exists and what it means, but there's a lot of interest  in it at the moment.  They're sort of talking about incidents of up to 5%, which means that there'll be several  people in the room who maybe they don't realise it, but are actually very, very bad at recognising  faces.  So if you're somebody like that, you might want to look into it.  So there's a suggestion that some people grow up or show a developmental type of prosopagnosia  that mean they're selectively impaired at recognising faces.  And as we'd expect, if this is all tied into specific mechanisms to do with grouping the  facial features together to do with treating faces as a whole, there's evidence that people  who have prosopagnosia don't show the same sort of effects that we talked about earlier  in the lecture.  They don't show the holistic processing that seems to be the hallmark of faces.  The inversion effect might not apply to these patients.  So what does that suggest?  It suggests that what they're doing to faces and other objects, to faces that are the right  way up and which are inverted, seems to be the same.  So unlike normal people who treat faces the correct way up very differently, they  seem to be treating everything the same.  Perhaps they're doing more of a sort of a piece by piece recognition of a face rather  than a holistic configural recognition, which healthy people seem to do.  So here are a couple of quotes from a neuropsychological book about what it's like to have prosopagnosia.  The first patient says, I can tell the difference between a man and a woman from across the  street, but I fail to recognise the face of an old friend and I mistook my mother for  my wife, awkward.  Somebody else says, two people, one of them could be my wife because of the silhouette.  This is when he's looking at a photo.  One of them could be my wife because of the silhouette.  If it is my wife, the other person could be me and it was their wedding photo.  So they're sort of using outlines, using silhouettes, maybe using other cues, but  they're showing a severe impairment in terms of actually recognising facial identity.  So there are some other interesting hints in those quotes, like the one at the top.  He says he can tell the difference between a man and a woman, but he can't recognise  a specific woman.  So maybe that's something interesting as well.  Maybe that starts to show the different sorts of information we can get from a face and  how those different things might be represented.  So maybe the features we use to do man versus woman are intact in this person.  Maybe he's using clothes like hair and clothes, but he can't do specific identity.  So a lot of patients can kind of get by and developmental prosopagnosics may develop  different sort of strategies.  Maybe they get very good at telling people by their voice or by the way they walk or  by what kind of clothes they wear.  So some of them develop this kind of strategies and a lot of us can do that kind of stuff.  But when you actually test them and show them two photographs or two, if you sort of eliminate  those cues, they're very, very bad.  So like I said, we should think about this neuropsychological evidence in terms of the  models that we've learned about.  What do they say about the way that normal people recognise faces?  Well, we can think about the difference between detection and recognition.  So most of these patients are able to detect a face.  So if I showed you a picture of a face and something that isn't a face and said, which  is the face?  They can do that.  They know where the face should be.  They know that it's a face.  So they're able to detect the face.  They're able to sort of identify the features and say, yeah, their nose is an eyes and that's  a face, but they can't recognise it.  So maybe that means that the stages in the sort of Bruce and Young type model which are  impaired in prosopagnosics are a bit later on.  Maybe they're a bit more like associative agnosia than apperceptive agnosia where there's  something basic going on to do with the visual features.  Doesn't seem to be that because they can detect faces.  Maybe prosopagnosia can tell us something about familiar versus unfamiliar faces.  So we saw that Bruce and Young kind of make an important distinction between those types  of faces.  Their model deals with familiar faces that we already have a kind of a template for.  Prosopagnosics don't seem to be able to do that in the same way, but sometimes they do  manage to learn faces.  Sometimes they do manage to recognise people that they're very familiar with.  So I showed you extreme examples where people couldn't recognise their wife, but more common  they'll forget people who are reasonably famous, but they'll remember people that  they see every day.  So maybe some of the activation in that sort of network is still there.  Maybe there's still some strong activation for people they know very well who are very  familiar.  Or maybe they can use the other parts of that network, remember the stuff to do with who  this person is, to cue them.  Maybe they hear somebody speaking a British accent singing a Beatles song.  They can go from that semantic information to the name, rather than having to say, ah,  yeah, it's John Lennon, it's Paul McCartney.  So we can think about familiar and unfamiliar faces, and we can think about the other pathways  in the model, the pathways to do with identity and expression.  So according to Bruce and Young, these are two different sorts of things that we do with  the information, and there's some evidence that there are at least some prosopagnosics  who can do facial expression just fine.  They can say that person's happy, that person's sad.  They just can't say if that person's their wife or their mother.  They can't say if they recognize the particular identity of that face.  So that's good evidence for what Bruce and Young said about there being two pathways  in terms of identity and expression, in terms of being view-dependent and view-independent  sort of representations of the visual stuff that makes up a face.  So that's how you should think about this kind of neuropsychological evidence.  How can it inform us about the stuff that normal people do, and the way we might sort  of build a model of how people can do it, and how it's represented in the brain?  So here's that model again.  Maybe we could point to a particular part of the model which is impaired.  Maybe we could say, well, when you're prosopagnosic, maybe something's happening to the face recognition  units, or to this bit of the model, which would leave expression analysis and some  of the other stuff intact.  So maybe we can start to scrub out some of these boxes and produce a model for what's  happening in a neuropsychological disorder like prosopagnosia.  So another sort of interesting aspect of this, which I touched on before the break,  is what we call covert recognition in prosopagnosia.  So prosopagnosics can't recognize faces explicitly.  If you ask them, who is this person, they won't be able to tell you.  But sometimes they show what we call covert recognition, which means that even though  they can't produce the name, if you force them to guess, they actually do so better  than chance.  Or they might show semantic priming effects.  Remember, we talked about semantic priming effects.  So they might not be able to tell you that it's Cheryl Cole, or David Beckham, or Simon  Cowell, but they might still get faster if you show Cheryl Cole and then Simon Cowell.  So remember, that was what semantic priming was.  You can be cued by the semantic relationship between two faces.  So even though they can't explicitly tell you who this person is, they might still show  this kind of semantic priming effect.  And if you ask them to try and learn faces which are famous, like you give them some  kind of learning task, it turns out that they can learn those faces better than faces which  aren't famous.  So there seems to be something residual which is still there, something which allows them  to do that kind of recognition.  More specifically, there were some famous experiments where they showed, again, looking  at the skin conductance measure that we talked about was a kind of an emotional response  to faces.  There were experiments showing that although prosopagnosics couldn't recognise a familiar  face, they still showed the emotional response associated with that effect, with that face.  So if you showed them somebody nice or somebody nasty, or somebody who was close to them who  is maybe a loved one, then they would show that emotional response, that skin conductance  response, and they would show a greater one to people that they knew, even though if we  ask them explicitly, they can't tell you who they are or whether they know them or not.  So this kind of suggests that there is something else which is intact, which is still there  in prosopagnosia, which is preserved, and that might be this sort of second pathway  in face recognition.  So remember I showed you this before the break, another extension to that model.  This emotional route B, so one of the reasons that they proposed this was because prosopagnosics  seem to be able to still sort of feel these kind of emotions, even though they can't do  the explicit stuff in the purple box.  So they seem to be able to detect something about the emotion or something about the emotional  attribution that people give to a face.  So that is what we might call a dissociation.  We've got a patient who can do A, but they can't do B. In this case, they can do emotional  recognition, if you like.  They can show an emotional response, but they can't do an explicit response.  So that's a single dissociation, got one group of patients.  If we wanted to make this sort of argument much more strong, what we really want is a  double dissociation.  We want somebody who does the other way round, right, who can recognise the face, but doesn't  show the same emotional response, and it's been proposed that there are some patients  like that, and that they are patients with what's known as Capgras delusion.  So Capgras delusion is a very bizarre neuropsychological disorder, which is rare, and it's called delusional  misidentification syndrome, which means that basically people recognise somebody, but believe  that they've been replaced by an imposter.  So here's another quote about Capgras.  Mrs D, a 74-year-old married housewife, received the diagnosis of atypical psychosis because  of her belief that her husband had been replaced by another unrelated man.  She refused to sleep with the imposter, locked her bedroom and door at night, asked her son  for a gun, and finally fought with the police when attempts were made to hospitalise her.  At times, she believed her husband was her long-deceased father.  So it's been proposed that this kind of bizarre disorder, where people kind of recognise the  face, they admit that this person looks exactly like their husband, but they believe  they've been replaced by an imposter, or they misidentify them as somebody else.  And it's been proposed that that is because, in Capgras disorder, although face recognition  is intact, the emotional response, the emotional attribution that they're expecting from  that person, has been removed.  And it's been proposed that those sorts of patients don't show the same kind of skin  conductance response that normal participants show, and that prosopagnosics show.  So it's been proposed that there might be this kind of double dissociation between Capgras  delusion and prosopagnosia.  So between prosopagnosia, where they can't recognise faces, but they still show this  kind of emotional response, the face sort of feels familiar, and Capgras delusion,  where they recognise the person all right, they recognise the features, but something  feels weird, doesn't feel right.  So it's been proposed that this provides evidence for this kind of emotional affective  route, being intact in one group of patients, but being impaired in the other group.  So we talked a bit about prosopagnosia, and the question that we've kind of returned  to in all this research is, how are faces special, and are faces special?  And I've shown you quite a lot of evidence that says that they kind of are.  So we're going to think about whether that means that there are specialised brain mechanisms  for faces, or whether maybe there's another explanation for why faces seem to be processed  in a special way.  Okay, so the evidence we've looked at so far, we looked at those effects, we looked  at how faces seem to be disproportionately affected by turning them upside down, we looked  at how research shows this kind of a part hole, and the composite effects about how  we put the features together in an obligatory fashion, and we've talked about prosopagnosia,  and the possible double dissociation, which shows that something specific happens in the  brain which can go wrong, which is specifically to do with processing faces.  So there's also quite a lot of research, quite a lot of evidence from cognitive neuroscience,  from looking at the brain, looking at the functions of the brain while people are doing  tasks, and which are associated with particular cognitive tasks.  So there's quite a lot of research showing that we do indeed have a specific part of  the brain, and the evidence suggests that there's a specific part of the brain called  the fusiform gyrus, which has also been called the fusiform face area, the FFA.  So here are a couple of fuzzy brain scans.  The one on the left is a view from the top, right, it's a sagittal slice where we've  kind of lopped off the top of somebody's head and looking down, we haven't really  done that, it's a scan, you've got two FFAs in each temporal lobe, so it's a structure  within the temporal lobe.  This is a view from the back of the brain showing how far down the temporal lobe it is.  So it's been proposed that there's this fusiform face area which lights up, which activates  preferentially when we ask people to look at faces, or when we ask people to recognise faces.  And it's been proposed that this is really specific for faces, and that this might underlie  the reason that we seem to treat faces differently.  It might be a part of the brain which is associated with that other behavioural evidence  that we've looked at.  So here's one example of many experiments where they've looked at the FFA, and in  this experiment the kind of interesting thing is that they tried to compare lots and lots  of different categories of image.  So what Downey and colleagues did was they put people in a brain scanner, they showed  them pictures, and they looked at which parts of the brain were active, and in particular  they looked at this region, the FFA, and said, how active is it?  And they compared all these different types of categories.  So they said, well, we want to rule out that it's not anything else.  So they looked at animals, they looked at bodies without faces, they looked at cars  and furniture and weird animals and insects and fruit and scenes and all these different  things, which a lot of these categories share a lot of features with faces.  They're all sort of colourful, they're all natural, they've all got the same sorts of  features, and then they just looked at the activation in the FFA, in the right FFA,  because you've got two, remember, you've got one in each hemisphere, and this bar at  the end, the last bar, is the activation shown to faces.  So across all these categories, the biggest activation in the FFA was to faces.  So they said, it really is specific to faces.  There's something about faces that really trigger this part of the brain and that suggests  that we've got a specialised bit of the brain for doing faces.  So the reason that the choice of category here is quite important is that we've already  sort of said that faces are a special type of stimulus because of the subtle distinctions,  because of the configurable processing that is required to recognise an individual's face.  So it's been argued that it's very difficult to actually find a good control stimulus,  which is going to tap into the same types of processing that we use for faces.  So maybe it's not really fair to say this is a face area, maybe it's just an area which  is good at configurable processing, good at features laid out in a particular way.  So one study that tried to sort of rule this out was this study by Yoval and Kanwisher.  So Nancy Kanwisher is the person that sort of discovered the FFA and that has produced  a lot of work about it.  So they tried to use a different control stimulus, namely a house or a group of houses.  So they made a direct comparison between people recognising faces and people recognising houses.  So in the test phase, you had to learn a series of faces or a series of houses.  And then you had to sort of, we tested how well you were, how good you were at recognising  those faces.  And we can do so either by changing the parts, changing the nose or the eyes, or by keeping  the same parts and just changing the distance between the features, sort of moving them  further apart.  And we can see how well people do and how well the FFI is activated.  But importantly, they did the same thing with houses.  So they said they took houses and they took the windows, they took the doors, they took  the roof, took the chimney, same sort of features, just like eyes and nose, same features, and  they changed the parts or they changed the configuration.  So they tried to get the closest control as they could.  And they still found that the FFI, FFA, the activation in the FFA was higher for faces  than it was for houses, even though we're using the same kind of, presumably we have  to use the same kind of processes, the same kind of configural processes to do this task.  So there's something about the faces that made the FFI light up, FFA light up.  And as we'd expect from this, in prosopagnosia, if we look at the damage that these patients  have sustained through stroke or brain injury, if we try and look and see what's gone wrong  in those patients, it turns out that the damage in those patients almost always includes these  regions.  So neuropsychology tends to be a bit messy.  There's often a lot of different damage.  It's quite rare to get somebody who has only got a problem with faces.  Often they've got other problems to do with memory or to do with coordination or to do  with speech.  But one of the common factors, if you look at lots and lots of people who have this disorder,  the common factor is that it tends to... 