 So let's move in here into chapter 12.  This chapter is all about real estate financing.  And if you took our real estate principles class,  we have a pretty thorough discussion  in chapters eight and nine about financing.  And a lot of this might be a little bit of a review for you,  but it's important nonetheless.  Now, why do you think there are financing chapters,  not only in real estate principles,  but also in real estate practice and real estate law?  And if you're taking your broker's class,  we have a whole class really on real estate finance  that's required by the BRE in California.  And if you think about it,  the majority of all of our real estate transactions  actually have an element of finance in them.  The majority of transactions that we're dealing with,  actually, you know,  the buyer isn't paying cash for the property,  they're securing a loan from either a bank  or from a mortgage company  or from even a private individual.  So before we totally get into this,  let's look at the bottom of page number 400  and the top of page 401.  We'll talk a little bit here  about the Federal Reserve Bank.  And the Federal Reserve Bank  is our nation's bank throughout the United States.  And really, there's two ways  that the government could influence how our economy grows.  One way is through fiscal policy.  And fiscal policy is like through tax and spend.  Fiscal policy is where, you know,  the federal government either raises or lowers tax rates  in order to influence our economy.  Now, that's different than monetary policy.  And if you look at the bottom of page number 400  and the top of page 401,  these two pages really talk about monetary policy  that the Federal Reserve uses  to influence the overall economy.  Now, three things at the top of page 401  that the Fed could do to influence the economy.  Number one is the discount rate.  Now, the discount rate is the rate  that the Federal Reserve will charge member banks  for very short-term borrowing.  Now, don't confuse this with the prime rate.  The prime rate, of course,  is the rate that the bank might charge its best customer.  But the discount rate, totally different.  This is the rate that the Federal Reserve Bank  charges member banks to borrow money.  Now, all three of these,  really, if you look at the top of page 401,  all three of these are either gonna have  effect of stimulating the economy  or of slowing the economy.  So right next to discount rate at the top of page 401,  you might wanna write the word slow.  So if we wanna slow the economy,  we would raise the discount rate.  So if the government wanted to slow the economy,  maybe they thought inflation was on the horizon,  they would raise the discount rate.  So clearly, if it costs more money to borrow money,  people are less likely to wanna borrow it, right?  So if we raise the discount rate,  this'll have the effect of slowing the economy.  If we lower the discount rate,  this will have the effect of stimulating the economy.  So if we lower and lower and lower rates,  people might be more apt to borrow  because it's cheaper to borrow money.  When they borrow money, they go out and spend it  and it grows the economy.  So one way that the Federal Reserve  could influence our economy  is through monetary policy and the discount rate.  If we lower the discount rate,  this would have the effect of stimulating the economy.  If we raise the discount rate,  this would have the effect of slowing the economy.  And you might wanna make that note here  at the top of page 401.  The second way that the Federal Reserve  could influence our economy is through reserve requirements.  Now, reserve requirements, of course,  are the amount of money that a member bank  has to have in reserve according to the Federal Reserve.  So if I'm Wells Fargo Bank and I have $100 in my vault,  I actually cannot loan out all that 100.  I have to keep a certain amount of that 100 in reserve.  Now, that amount is actually dictated  by the Federal Reserve Bank.  As a member bank, I gotta follow their rules.  So if we raise the reserve requirement,  let's say the reserve requirement  is raised from 14% to 25%.  Now, the bank has less money to lend out.  If they have less money to lend out,  this is gonna have the effect of slowing the economy  because there's not enough money to lend out.  If we lowered the reserve requirement,  this would have the effect of stimulating the economy.  So instead of the reserve requirements,  let's say at 14%, we drop them to 5%,  now the bank only has to keep 5% in reserve.  This is gonna have the effect  of stimulating the economy  because there's more money to lend,  the more money to lend, the more money is out there,  and the economy is gonna grow.  So two ways that the Federal Reserve  could influence the economy through monetary policy.  One way is through the discount rate.  Another way is through reserve requirements  here at the top of page 401.  In both of these instances,  if we lower the discount rate  or lower the reserve requirement,  this is gonna have the effect of stimulating the economy.  If we raise the discount rate  or raise reserve requirements,  this is gonna have the effect of slowing the economy.  If we raise the discount rate,  it's more expensive to borrow,  people don't wanna borrow as much.  If we raise reserve requirements,  this is also gonna have the effect  of having less money to lend  and therefore the economy is gonna slow  because there's less money  kind of flowing through the system.  The third and final way here at the top of page 401  that the Federal Reserve could influence the economy  through monetary policy  is through something called open market operations.  Now, the first two,  we had the choice of raising or lowering, right?  We had the choice of up or down.  With open market operations,  this is actually different.  It's not gonna be up or down.  This is actually gonna be buy or sell.  So these are the purchase or sale of government bonds.  Now think about this for a second.  What's a bond?  A bond is like debt, right?  So if I'm the government and I issue a bunch of bonds,  I'm basically borrowing money from investors.  I'm basically giving out a bunch of IOUs.  Investors are paying me money for those IOUs  and I'm basically gonna go out  and do whatever I need to do,  build a bridge, build a freeway, build a park.  I have money now.  Now I gotta pay interest on those bonds though  to those investors.  So think about this for a second.  If you're a member of the public and I'm the government  and you have a bond in your pocket,  it's not like you could go out  and go to Ralph's or Trader Joe's  and spend that bond money.  You gotta convert that bond into cash  before you can go out and spend it.  That's why, quite frankly,  if a lot of people had all their money in bonds  and never spent it,  the economy would actually slow, right?  Because everybody's saving,  everybody's just sitting there with their cash.  They're not spending it causing the economy to grow.  So think about this for a second.  Let's say that I'm the government  and I came to you and I bought your bond.  So I'm gonna give you cash  and I'm gonna take the bond from you.  If the government buys your bond,  now you're gonna have money in your pocket.  You can go out there and spend it and grow the economy.  So right next to open market operations  or open market transactions,  I would write the words buy bonds dash stimulate.  If the government buys bonds,  this would have the effect of stimulating the economy  because I'm coming to you,  I'm taking a bond from your pocket,  I'm buying it from you.  And now you can go out and spend that money  that you just got from the government  when I bought your bond.  So buying bonds would stimulate the economy  because the government is converting those bonds into cash.  Now, right underneath that at the top of page 401,  I would write the words sell bonds slash slow.  Sell bonds slash slow.  If you sell bonds,  this is gonna have the effect of slowing the economy.  So if I'm the government and I sell you a bond,  I'm basically taking money from you  and I'm giving you a bond in return.  Now you're forced to save.  You're gonna sit there with the bond  and wait for it to mature,  live on the small coupon payments or whatever.  But if I'm selling a bond and I'm the government,  this is gonna have the effect of slowing the economy  because it's taking money out of the system  and it's forcing you to sit there with your bond.  So buy bonds would stimulate the economy.  Sell bonds would slow the economy  because it takes money out of the system.  So those are three ways,  just kind of a basic explanation,  but three ways that the Federal Reserve  through monetary policy can influence the economy.  Not through fiscal policy.  Remember, fiscal is tax and spend.  As it says here at the bottom of page 400,  monetary policy are the three ways at the top of page 401.  Either discount rate, up or down.  That's the rate that the Federal Reserve  charges a member bank for short-term borrowing.  We also have number two, reserve requirements.  This is the amount of money that a given bank  needs to have in reserve  in order to meet Federal Reserve requirements.  And number three, of course,  we have open market operations,  which is basically the buying and selling  of government bonds.  So here on page number 401 at the middle,  there's a discussion, of course,  about interest rates and the real estate market.  And it's now 2014 and interest rates, of course,  continue to remain low.  And we know that the Federal Reserve Chairman,  Janet Yellen, is intimating that rates  are gonna continue to stay low  over at least the next year.  But what's interesting is that rates are, again,  extremely low.  In the low four percents,  you can get a 30-year fixed conforming loan.  But I read this very funny blog.  Somebody sent it to me that said,  when interest rates hit 7%,  the real estate market is gonna just completely implode.  And I read that and I was like,  this is obviously somebody who's less than 25 years old.  Because if you go back historically,  let's say to 1979, 80, 81, 82,  interest rates in that Carter-Reagan transition period  in the early 80s really were like,  up in the high teens.  You know, 15, 16, 17, 18% in some cases  for home loan financing.  So, I mean, I think we've just been really spoiled  over the last 10, 15 years with interest rates,  you know, four, five, six, 6.5%.  And that's kind of, we've been conditioned  that interest rates sort of should be in that range  for real estate financing.  And we've really been blessed  by having a pretty low interest rate environment  over the last decade, decade and a half.  But if you look here at the bottom of page 401,  there's also a discussion here,  bottom of 401 and the top of 402 about loan points.  And, you know, this is important for the exam.  One loan, one point, as they say,  is equivalent to 1% of the loan amount.  So if you have a loan of 500,000  and the lender is charging you one point,  that's gonna be $500,000 in points.  400,000 on a loan, $4,000 if they're charging you one point.  Now, points can take one of two forms.  Points can either be called origination points  or they could be called discount points.  Now, either way, these are,  one point is 1% of the loan amount.  Now, if you look at the top of 402,  a discount point is a point that is paid by the borrower  in advance, upfront,  in order to lower the overall interest rate.  That's called a discount point.  So you pay a point, a 1% of the loan amount  as a discount point.  This is just gonna lower your overall rate of interest  on your loan.  Now, if you think about this though,  if I was gonna buy a home that I wanted to live in forever  and rates were pretty low today  and I wanted a low overall interest rate  over the life of the loan,  let's say the entire 30 years,  I might be willing to pay one or two discount points  all the way maybe to some floor  where even if I pay more, it can't go below that  because I know I'm gonna be keeping this thing  for let's say, my plan anyway,  is to keep it for let's say 30 years.  If you're buying a house to flip  or you're getting financing  and you plan on getting in and out  in the next year or two years,  you're probably not gonna wanna pay a ton of discount points  because you're gonna be selling that property  and paying off that loan pretty quickly here.  So this is kind of overall mortgage planning  in your own mind.  A borrower who is likely to keep their home  for an extended period of time  might be willing to pay more in discount points  to get an overall lower interest rate  over the life of the loan.  An origination point here at the top of page 402,  an origination point is a point that's paid upfront.  It's like processing.  It's just almost like a commission.  It's just a fee paid to the,  let's say mortgage broker or lender  in order to obtain that loan.  So either way, whether you're talking about discount points  or origination points,  one point is equivalent to 1% of the loan amount.  Now here at the bottom of page 402,  you'll see this discussion where it says sources of funds,  where money comes from to finance real estate.  Now this money can come from essentially one of two places.  And we'll talk about this again more later in the chapter,  but the money can come from either an institutional lender  or from a non-institutional lender,  institutional or non-institutional.  And we'll talk about the differences  later on in the chapter,  but institutional lenders are like banks,  life insurance companies, savings and loan organizations.  Those are institutional lenders.  Non-institutional lenders are like mortgage companies,  private individuals, mortgage brokers, mortgage bankers.  These are all considered to be non-institutional lenders.  Now, there's a lot more origination  coming from the institutional side,  mainly because banks and life insurance companies,  banks do a lot of different kinds of loans.  Life insurance companies generally make really big loans,  like $3 million and up.  Now, when you talk about a loan being originated initially,  that is known as activity at the top of page 403  in the primary mortgage market.  So the primary mortgage market is the original  or the initial origination of a loan.  That's called activity in the primary mortgage market.  Now, so you go to Wells Fargo to apply for a loan.  Wells Fargo does that loan for you.  That's activity in the primary mortgage market.  The secondary market would be if Wells Fargo  were to sell that loan to let's say Bank of America,  that would represent activity  in the secondary mortgage market.  So primary mortgage market  is the initial origination of the loan.  The secondary mortgage market is where that loan  is sold to another bank or another investor.  Now, if you look here, of course, on page 403,  you'll see some discussion about this.  Now, a lot of people, frankly,  if you look back at this last recession,  you know, 2008 and 2009, a lot of people say,  well, the reason that we're kind of in this,  the conundrum that we were in,  the problems we were having is because  a lot of the banks would just sell off these loans  and they wouldn't really care  whether or not the borrower could pay.  You know, that's true to some extent,  you know, that a bank should have  a little more skin in the game.  If you're gonna originate a loan,  you should vet that borrower  and make sure they have the credit  and the income necessary to, you know,  continue to make payments.  But the notion that, you know,  a bank selling a loan to another bank is inherently evil,  you know, I would encourage you to think about that  because imagine that Wells Fargo made,  let's say, a billion dollars  in mortgage origination this year.  Then next year, Wells Fargo has a meeting and says,  you know what, we're way too heavy into real estate loans.  We don't wanna make any more real estate loans anymore,  let's focus more on auto loans.  Now, borrowers that come into Wells Fargo  to borrow money to buy houses the next year  aren't gonna be able to secure financing  because they're otherwise qualified,  it's just that the bank doesn't wanna play  in that sandbox anymore because they have,  you know, they've made too many loans of that type.  So in order to kind of keep money flowing through the system  and keep credit flowing through the system  and make sure there's always money available  for real estate loans,  the government actually participates  in this secondary market  where these loans are purchased from other investors  just to free up capital  and make sure that money stays flowing through the system.  You'll see these on the bottom of page 403,  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac  are basically quasi-governmental organizations  that participate in the secondary mortgage market.  So Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac  help money flow through the system  by buying loans from banks  that meet their underwriting guidelines.  And you'll see this actually at the bottom of page 404,  you'll see a couple things here.  First, the term conforming loan.  A conforming loan at the bottom of page 404  is a loan that meets the underwriting standards  for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac  for purchase in the secondary market.  That's why if you like,  I'll give you an example.  Right now, I'm in Newport Beach.  If you look at high-end areas like Newport Beach,  Manhattan Beach, Beverly Hills,  a lot of transactions that are done in those communities,  well, first, they tend to be cash.  And it's not so easy to get money  to buy a $3 million home,  mainly because these are very large home loans,  two and a half, three, four, five, $10 million.  There's not a lot of secondary market activity  for these loans.  So a lot of these loans are what's called portfolio loans  here at the bottom of page 404.  A portfolio loan is a loan,  it is kind of what it sounds like.  A portfolio loan is a loan  that the lender intends to keep.  A portfolio loan is a loan  that the lender keeps kind of in their portfolio,  and the lender makes the interest on that.  Now, here's the challenge with a lot of large jumbo loans  that are portfolio loans inherently,  is that if a bank makes you a $4 million loan  and you don't pay,  that bank could be in a pretty tough position  because it's not easily sold in the secondary market.  They can't push that risk onto someone else easily,  problem number one.  The other thing to think about with this  is that a bank can either make you one $4 million loan,  or they can make 10 $400,000 loans,  spread their risk and get loan fees and origination fees  on every one of those deals.  So if the question on the exam were to say,  here at the bottom of 404,  loans that meet underwriting guidelines  for purchase by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac  are known as what?  Your answer, conforming loans, right?  A loan that the lender does not sell  and intends to keep is known as what?  Bottom of page 404,  these are known as portfolio loans  here at the bottom of page 404.  Now, we talked earlier about the two types of lenders.  There are institutional lenders  and non-institutional lenders, right?  Institutional and non-institutional.  Institutional lenders, if you look here on page 405,  there's a couple of these that we should know for the exam.  One of these are commercial banks.  Next to commercial banks, I'd write a couple things.  The first thing I would write at the middle of page 405,  I would write the words, a wide variety of loans.  A commercial bank makes a wide variety of loans.  I mean, isn't it true that you could go to a commercial bank  and get, let's say, a credit card loan,  and a student loan, and an auto loan,  and a home equity loan?  I mean, there's all sorts of different loans  that you could get from a bank.  So a bank makes a wide variety of loans for the exam.  Another thing that I would note here,  if you look at page 405,  I would underline or highlight  kind of in the middle of the page,  you'll see where it says,  commercial banks have been a major source  for construction loans.  So if the question on the exam were to say,  the lender that would most likely make you  a construction loan is who?  A commercial bank, right?  So commercial banks are going to make construction loans,  and they also make a wide variety of loans here  at the middle of page 405.  Now, these are different than if you look at page 406,  these are different than life insurance companies.  Next to life insurance companies,  I would write the words, large loans,  $3 million and up.  Life insurance companies make large loans,  3 million and up.  So the question on the exam actually  kind of might be backwards on this one.  The question on the test might be,  the lender that would least likely make a small loan  to purchase a condominium is who?  That's right, life insurance companies, right?  Life insurance companies are least likely  to make those small loans.  They'll generally make large loans,  let's say $3 million and up.  Another thing that's pretty important  about life insurance companies for our test  is at the bottom of the page, in bold,  you'll see the term participation loan.  So a participation loan is a loan wherein the lender,  typically a life insurance company in this context,  a lender will make you the loan,  but they'll also take a small minority share,  an ownership in the project.  So the lender might say, look, we'll make you the loan,  but we also want a small equity share in the project.  Now, you have to be careful though as an investor  because a lot of the times when life insurance companies  make these participation loans,  they'll have a say in management also.  So if you have a gardener friend of yours or a landscaper  that you're pretty close with,  and that lender says that, hey, look,  this landscaper's charging too much money,  it's possible that that lender might be able to dictate  who you actually can use to landscape the project  because they also have an equity interest in the property.  So two institutional lenders, one, commercial banks, right?  We know these guys make a variety of loans  and they're active in construction lending, we know that.  We also know that another institutional lender  is a life insurance company.  These guys make large loans,  generally $3 million and up.  And some of these loans, quite frankly,  are also participation loans  where the lender will take an equity interest in the project  in addition to making the loan.  Now, one thing that's important at the bottom of page 405,  one thing that's important at the bottom of 405  is the term private mortgage insurance.  So private mortgage insurance, or PMI,  is a monthly fee, it's insurance,  that is paid when you have one loan  that is greater than 80% of the value of the property.  So generally what'll happen here  is let's say with an FHA deal,  we'll talk about FHA later in the chapter.  On FHA, you're typically putting about 3 1⁄2% down  on an FHA loan.  So you'll have one loan  that's 96.5% of the purchase price.  Because now you have one loan  greater than 80% of the value,  the lender will, there's a bar  where you're really required to pay something called PMI,  or private mortgage insurance,  each and every month at the bottom of page 405.  So again, what is PMI?  It's private mortgage insurance.  It's monthly premium paid  because you have one loan  greater than 80% of the value of the property.  And that's important to know here  at the bottom of page 405.  Now, if you look at the bottom of 406  and the top of 407,  we already talked about  the two important institutional lenders for the exam.  They are life insurance companies and commercial banks.  And we talked about some of the characteristics  associated with each one of those.  If you look at the bottom of 406 and the top of 407,  this section is about a non-institutional lenders.  And non-institutional lenders  can either take the form of mortgage bankers  or mortgage brokers here at the top of 407.  They're also private individuals.  If you look at that chart at the top of 407,  anytime you have, let's say, seller carryback financing,  that seller is acting as a non-institutional lender  or a private lender at the top of 407.  Now, one thing that's a pretty big change, actually,  that's happened over the last several years  in our real estate industry is the SAFE Act.  And the SAFE Act is a law that went into effect  a few years ago that basically requires now  that all mortgage loan originators,  mortgage companies, mortgage bankers, et cetera,  actually have to take a 20-hour class and an exam.  And every year,  they have to take an eight-hour renewal class  under the SAFE Act.  So the SAFE Act is basically a law that passed  that requires that mortgage loan originators  have basically additional education.  They have to take and pass another test.  They gotta renew this license every year.  And anytime you get a business card from a lender,  the lender, their card will always have something  called an NMLS number on it.  This NMLS concept stands  for National Mortgage License Systems,  required again here under the SAFE Act,  showing that they've passed the 20-hour class,  they've passed an exam,  they've passed a financial health check.  Now, again, this law went into effect after our recession.  So a lot of regulators looked at our industry and said,  well, who's licensing a lot of these mortgage companies?  And really what they found  was that under some regulatory structures,  some of the employees at those mortgage companies  didn't actually need to be licensed.  So we passed something called the SAFE Act,  which requires that mortgage companies  and people that work there need an NMLS endorsement  under this law called the SAFE Act  here on all of page number 407, really.  Now, another couple of things that are pretty important,  if you look here at the top of 408,  you'll see the term subprime lender at the top of 408.  A subprime loan, as you probably know,  is a loan that does not meet  typical underwriting guidelines.  Now, this might be because  maybe you have too many expenses  and your debt to income ratio is a little too high.  This might be because your credit score  isn't above 680 or 720 or 750 or whatever it is,  and you might need to go to a subprime lender.  So a subprime loan,  these are sometimes also called Alt-A loans  or loans for people that don't really fit into the box  of what a traditional bank  would consider to be a perfect borrower.  These are, of course, known as subprime loans  here at the top of page 408.  You're probably familiar with that concept.  Now, if you look at the bottom of page 408  and the top of 409,  you'll see the term seller carryback financing in bold.  Seller carryback financing is where the seller  is actually acting as a lender,  where the seller is actually acting as a lender.  Now, let me give you an example of this.  An example of a seller carry deal might be,  maybe I'm selling my house for $100,000.  You wanna buy my house.  Between your loan and your down payment,  you're good for like 90,000.  You're short 10,000.  Now, if you asked me to take 90,000 on my $100,000 deal,  I might tell you no.  But I might say, look, you pay me the 90.  I, as the seller, will carry back the remaining 10,000.  Meaning that you, as the buyer,  you're gonna make your regular mortgage payment  to Bank of America.  But additionally, every single month,  you're gonna pay me  because I'm acting as the lender on a junior loan.  This is known as seller carryback financing.  Now, the benefit to you is that now you get to buy my house.  The benefit to me is I get to sell my house  and I'll actually be secured by the property as a seller.  So if you don't pay me, fine, I'll just foreclose  just like any other lender would.  But the benefit to me is, number one,  I have a security interest in the property.  So if you don't pay me, I can still foreclose.  Another benefit is if I put that $10,000 in the bank,  I might get 1% or 1.2% or maybe even less  in terms of a rate of interest.  But if I'm doing a seller carry deal,  I'm gonna charge you 6, 6 1⁄2 or 7%.  So it would give me a higher rate of return  that I would get leaving my money at the bank.  Another benefit, candidly, to a seller carryback,  or another thing to think about is that I, as the seller,  this isn't really a benefit,  but it's just to understand the dynamics of how this works.  In order for this to work as a seller,  I have to not need that money now.  I have to not be relying on that $10,000 for any purpose.  Because if I need that 10,000 now, I can't carry, right?  Because I need the cash.  So this is a seller carry deal,  where the seller is actually acting  as the lender on a transaction.  And the seller is being paid a higher rate of interest  than they would get, for example,  if they left their money at the bank.  Now, another class of non-institutional lenders  is here on page number 409.  It's the mortgage loan broker.  Now, the mortgage loan broker  isn't actually making you the loan.  The mortgage loan broker is actually just introducing  a lender with a borrower  and collecting a commission for doing so.  So for the exam, maybe next to page 409,  you might wanna highlight this gray box that says,  mortgage brokers are strictly middlemen  who bring lenders and borrowers together, and that's true.  Another thing about mortgage brokers  that's pretty important to know for our test  is I would write the words least likely to service a loan.  Mortgage loan brokers are least likely to service a loan.  And you might wanna write that here at the top of page 409.  Mortgage loan brokers aren't gonna service a loan.  Now, what does service a loan mean?  That means, let's say collect payments,  send late statements, you know,  basically be a point of communication  between the lender and the borrower  during the life of the loan.  Mortgage brokers aren't gonna do that.  They're gonna introduce a lender with a borrower,  collect a commission for doing so,  and they're gonna be done.  So here on page number 409,  mortgage loan brokers, again,  they're strictly middlemen between a lender and a borrower.  Now, a lot of people hear this and say,  well, why would I ever go to a mortgage loan broker?  They're a middleman, right?  Admittedly, they're a middleman.  Anytime you have a middleman in anything,  they're gonna charge a fee.  Isn't it better to just simply, you know,  go straight to a bank?  Well, maybe if I have less than perfect credit,  maybe if my, maybe I'm self-employed  and my tax returns are really complicated,  and, you know, maybe I even ran a loss last year  on my business, but I have money,  I got a down payment, I got good credit,  but my tax returns just aren't there.  A mortgage broker might know someone  who's willing to make a loan  on terms that are not exactly the same  as what a traditional bank would require.  So there is a pretty big section in this book  or very important topic that we have to go over,  and it's here, if you look at page 413,  types of loans, 413, 414.  So we'll start at the top of page 414  with this discussion about conventional loans.  So a conventional loan is a loan  that does not involve the government.  So I know that term conventional  sounds a lot like conforming,  but they're actually different.  A conventional loan is a loan  that does not have any government participation.  Those loans are known as conventional loans.  Remember, a conforming loan is a loan  that meets the underwriting standards  for purchase by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac  in the secondary mortgage market, right?  So that's a conforming loan.  A conventional loan is a loan  that simply does not involve any aspect of the government.  Now, typically, just one way to think about this,  if you look at the top of page 414,  one way to think about this is  what do you consider to be good credit in your own mind?  Just a credit score.  Man, a lot of people, if you ask someone that,  will say 700, 720, 760, 800, something like that.  Is 580 good credit?  I think most of us would probably agree  that 580 isn't the most stellar credit in the world,  but FHA loan will allow a borrower  to borrow money to buy a property with 580 credit.  What do you consider to be  a normal down payment required on a loan?  Now, if you ask most people that,  most people are gonna say 20%.  Now, think about this.  If everybody on the planet needed 20% to put down,  it wouldn't happen.  I mean, let's say in Orange County or LA County  or even in the Bay Area, whatever,  an average price home might be 500,000 or more.  I mean, even if you go into like Riverside  and San Bernardino counties, which are great areas,  even a $300,000 property,  if you needed $60,000 or 20% to buy a $300,000 property,  how long do you think it would take  most people to save up 60,000?  It would take a long time.  And for a lot of us, we might not even know where to start  to save up that much money.  But FHA will allow a borrower to put only 3 1⁄2% down  in order to buy a property FHA.  Now again, do banks like making loans to people  that only have 3 1⁄2% down?  Of course not.  But a bank is willing to do it because on an FHA deal,  the government is actually insuring the loan.  So again, a conventional loan is generally gonna have  more strict underwriting guidelines.  Typically gonna require, let's say a conventional loan,  a lot of the time 10 or 20% down or more.  It's gonna require really good credit.  It's gonna require, you don't have a long story  about your life.  You know, FHA even has a program on a side note  called FHA Back to Work.  You can look that up on Google.  FHA Back to Work allows a borrower to buy a home FHA  within one year of a foreclosure.  That's amazing.  I mean, do banks like making loans to people  that just foreclosed last year?  Of course not.  But they're okay to do it on this particular program  because FHA is insuring the lender.  So again, a conventional loan, top of page 414,  is a loan that doesn't involve the government at all.  If you look at page number 414, you'll see this gray box.  Remember, this is a real estate practice class.  So it's kind of the practical application of real estate,  how to compare loans.  Look at the things that we're recommending  you compare loans on.  Loan to value ratio, the ratio or LTV,  the ratio of the loan amount to the value of a property.  How much money do you need to put down  in order to secure the loan?  That's one thing to compare.  Look at the second thing, interest rate.  And can it be changed?  Is it fixed or adjustable?  Look at the third thing, loan costs and fees required.  We'll talk about this again,  but there's a law called RESPA  or the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act.  And RESPA actually requires that a lender provide a borrower  with something called a good faith estimate  of all the fees, right?  So you can compare apples to apples  within three business days of you applying for a loan.  Pre-payment penalties.  Are you gonna be paying a big fee to pay off the loan early  if you sell it or refinance it?  Look at the next one, length of the loan.  Is it a 15-year or a 30-year loan?  Amount of fixed monthly payment, right?  I mean, how much is the payment comparing apples to apples?  Initial rate, adjustment periods, caps, index,  all these things if you have an adjustable rate loan  need to be compared.  So it's important.  Buying the right home is important.  But almost as important,  in some instances maybe even more important,  is the financing structure that you choose  on your particular loan.  Now, remember, a conventional loan, top of 414,  is a loan that doesn't involve the government.  At the bottom of page 414,  a government loan is not conventional by definition.  Obviously, because a conventional loan  is a loan that doesn't involve the government.  A government loan involves the government, right?  And there's really three types.  If you look at page 415, you'll see this chart.  FHA, VA, and CalVet.  FHA, VA, and CalVet are the three types  of government-sponsored loan types  that are important for us to know on the exam.  Now, if you look here at the bottom of page number 414,  bottom of 415, you'll see the term FHA.  FHA, of course, is Federal Housing Administration.  And we have a few paragraphs here on this,  but I'll just give you the gist of what FHA is.  First of all, FHA is not only for first-time buyers.  You can buy your second house FHA.  It's just that most people that go FHA  tend to be first-time homebuyers  because FHA only requires a 3.5% down payment,  which makes homeownership possible  for people that don't necessarily have a home before  that they're selling to buy their next one.  Because a lot of the time, if you own a home already  and you sell it, you're gonna use that down payment  in order to buy the next one, right?  So you're not gonna need the 3.5% down payment  that benefit that FHA provides to an FHA borrower.  But do you have to be a first-time buyer to go FHA?  No.  Are most FHA loans originated for first-time buyers?  Probably.  FHA is only gonna require a 3.5% down payment.  Now, FHA loan limits are dependent  on which county you're buying the property in.  Now, the book here on page 415 says at the middle,  FHA insured has a max loan amount of 625.  That's actually dependent on the county.  If you look at LA and Orange County, for example,  the FHA loan limit around here  is up to about 729,000 and change, which is great news.  I mean, again, today I'm in Newport Beach,  but you're probably not gonna buy the home of your dreams  in Newport Beach for 729,000.  But there are some areas in Orange County  where you can get maybe not the biggest house on the block,  but you can get a really nice house  and only put 3.5% down on your FHA deal.  So you can buy a $700,000 home  and only put $24,000, $25,000 down.  That $300,000 property I talked about,  let's say in Ontario, California,  you can buy that property with $11,000 down  or about 3.5%.  Now, you can save up $11,000.  Maybe not in a day, maybe not in a week,  maybe not even in a year.  But you could say, you know what?  I'm gonna buy a house in two years  and I'm gonna go FHA, I'm gonna buy it in the city  and I'm only gonna put 3.5% down.  That's possible, right?  If you needed to save up $60,000,  you can't just cut out beer, chocolate and cigarettes  and get to, you know, $60,000.  That's gonna take a lot,  it's a hell of a lot longer road  to save up that much money.  So FHA, the benefit here,  is that it only requires a 3.5% down payment.  VA, on the other hand, if you look at page number 416,  VA is awesome.  Now, VA is only for veterans,  but VA is awesome because it requires no money down.  So when we talked earlier about this concept  of something called loan-to-value,  loan-to-value ratio is a ratio of the loan amount  to the value of a property, right?  If you're putting no money down,  what's your loan-to-value?  It's 100% loan-to-value on VA on page number 416.  Now, you do have to have a certificate of eligibility  that shows that you're entitled to veterans' benefits,  but, you know, you should be.  You've served our country  and you're gonna be able to put zero down and buy a home.  So we have two government-sponsored loan types so far,  FHA and VA.  What's important to remember, though,  if you look back at 415,  who do you get an FHA and VA loan from?  You don't get an FHA and VA loan from FHA or VA.  You get it from a regular bank.  So you're gonna go to Wells Fargo, Bank of America,  you know, OneWest, JPMorgan Chase,  and that lender is gonna make you the loan.  FHA and VA are merely going to insure or guarantee  an FHA or VA loan made by an approved lender.  Now, the third type of government-sponsored loan,  if you look here at the bottom of 416  and the top of 417, is CalVet.  CalVet is totally different than FHA and VA.  On a CalVet deal, you're actually getting your loan  from the state of California.  The state is actually going out  and buying the house for you  and selling it to you on something called a land contract.  So a land contract does not involve a bank.  You might remember this from your principal's class.  Remember, a land contract is also called  a real property sales contract  or an installment sales contract or a land contract.  Not just for land, it's just there's no bank involved.  The best analogy for this is if you were to go buy a car,  like a old, you know, old kind of crappy used car  from a dealership, let's say it's $4,000.  You could go to that dealership and tell them,  look, I'll give you two grand as a down payment.  Give me the car so I can go to work.  Over the next year, I'll pay you $2,000  plus, you know, 15% interest or whatever it is,  and you mail me the pink slip or the title  when I get done paying you.  There is no bank involved in that story.  There's just the seller, the dealership,  and the buyer on a contract.  That's exactly how a CalVet loan works.  The state goes out and buys the house for the veteran.  The veteran signs a land contract.  The state gives them the keys.  The veteran gets to live there.  The state, though, is gonna hold on to a grant deed  until the veteran pays off the contract price.  This is a CalVet loan.  So three government-sponsored loans that we need to know,  FHA, VA, and CalVet.  FHA and VA are different  because the loans are originated by a lender.  They're just insured by the government.  On a CalVet product, the loan is actually originated,  the deal is done by the state of California,  and the state sells it to the veteran on a land contract.  So two types of loans, conventional on one side,  government-sponsored on the other.  FHA, VA, and CalVet are over here.  And the other loan types do not involve the government,  and they're known as conventional loans.  Now, another thing I do wanna share with you  from this chapter, if you look at 418 and 419,  there's a few different vocabulary terms  that are pretty important to know for the exam.  One of these is called an open-end loan  or open-end trust deed at the middle of 418.  An open-end loan is also called  a home equity line of credit or an open-end loan.  So in a home equity line of credit, also called a HELOC,  the amount of loan is not necessarily predetermined.  You're not actually taking any money today.  They'll just give you, let's say,  a $100,000 line of credit,  and you can draw on that line of credit over time.  Now, these open-end loans, candidly,  do tend to be adjustable-rate loans  because they kinda have to be, right?  Because if a lender gives you  a $100,000 line of credit today,  the lender doesn't know what the cost of that money  is gonna be at the time that you draw or borrow on it.  So the rate kinda floats, maybe with Prime  or with some LIBOR or some other kinda index,  and the rate kinda floats around,  and whatever the rate is will be what it is  at the time that you draw,  and it'll adjust over the life of the loan.  That's called an open-end loan.  How about the next one, a blanket loan?  A blanket loan, this is where one loan  is used to cover more than one parcel as collateral.  So if I make you a $500,000 loan,  and you have three properties as collateral,  if you don't pay me on that $500,000,  I'm gonna take all three.  Frankly, I'm gonna take all three houses.  That's called a blanket loan.  So a blanket loan is one loan secured  by more than one parcel of real estate.  Now, a blanket loan should have something  called a release clause in it,  and a release clause is basically a clause  in a blanket loan that would allow  for something called a partial reconveyance.  Let me explain.  Let's say you borrow $500,000 from me,  and we have three properties as collateral.  Now, if you get that loan down to, let's say, $100,000,  you might think it's unfair that you have three properties  in jeopardy as collateral for a small $100,000 loan.  So we could do a partial release clause,  where once you pay the loan down to certain milestones,  the lender will lift up the blanket  and take one of those properties  and release it out from under the blanket loan.  So two questions about this.  Number one, one loan covering multiple parcels  of real estate is known as what?  Your answer, a blanket loan.  A clause in a blanket loan that would allow  for a partial reconveyance is known as a release clause,  right, usually once you get it paid down to some milestone.  Look at the next one, a construction loan.  Construction loan is also called  an interim loan for the test.  You might wanna write that term interim,  I-N-T-E-R-I-M, interim loan.  This is a short-term loan made specifically  for the period of construction.  Now, these loans are generally made by commercial banks.  You'll remember that from earlier.  The lender that would most likely make you  a construction loan is who?  Commercial bank, right?  Now, again, these loans are also called interim loans.  Now, once you pay off or once you finish the construction,  you know, construction loans, frankly,  are kind of risky loans, candidly,  because if you don't pay, that lender might be stuck  with a half-finished project.  Anytime you have a riskier kind of loan type,  your rate's gonna be higher.  Once the construction is finished,  you're gonna wanna get something called a takeout loan  here at the bottom of page 418.  A takeout loan is called that because it literally  takes out the construction loan,  and the takeout loan sits as the long-term financing  on the project.  So now, think about this for a second.  When do you think it would be wise, as a developer,  to get that takeout commitment from a lender?  Oh, it's gonna be wise to get that takeout commitment,  frankly, at the same time you get your construction loan.  You don't wanna have your construction finished  and have your construction lender tapping you  on the shoulder and wanting their money back,  and you can't get a takeout loan for the life of you.  So you wanna get that takeout commitment from a lender  at the same time that you get your construction loan.  Now, you may have to pay something called a standby fee  for the privilege of having that money  parked for you over time,  but that takeout loan commitment, frankly,  should be secured at the same time  that you get your construction loan.  Look at the next one, a package loan.  A package loan is a loan, these are dirty sometimes,  because they combine both real property  and personal property simultaneously.  So if the collateral on your loan is like your house  and your car, that's called a package loan.  It's a loan that is secured by both personal property  as well as real estate.  Now, look at the last one here,  bottom of 418 and the top of 419.  You'll see the term wraparound trust deed.  Now, a wraparound trust deed is also called an AITD  or an all-inclusive trust deed.  These were really big, like in the 80s and early 90s.  The reason it's called a wraparound  or an all-inclusive trust deed at the bottom of the page  is because if you're buying my house  and I have a loan on it currently,  you might secure a new loan.  You'll leave my existing loan undisturbed.  And for the difference, let's say the loan is for 90,000,  you're gonna buy my house for 120,  you're gonna get another 30,000 dollar loan,  you'll get another loan  that'll wrap around the existing first.  So that first will stay on the title,  first will stay on the property undisturbed,  and you'll get another loan that sort of wraps around,  hence the term wraparound trust deed  or all-inclusive trust deed here on page number 418 and 419.  Now, here, if you look at the bottom  or the middle of page 400,  and well, actually, one thing before I forget,  because this is important.  You might hear that and say,  well, Karthik, you just told me  that you were leaving the existing loan undisturbed  and we're getting a new loan around it.  So title's being transferred to a new borrower.  Isn't that first bank gonna be pissed  that you transferred title  without paying off that existing loan?  And yeah, they might.  That's why these AITDs or wraparound loans  cannot have something at the middle of page number 419  called a due-on-sale clause in bold.  A due-on-sale clause is a clause in a loan  where if the lender finds out that you've sold the loan  or sold the property, rather,  that lender is gonna call the loan due.  So if you try to leave my loan alone  and you get a new loan around it  and you just take a grant deed from me  and that lender finds out,  this is gonna trigger a what?  A due-on-sale clause.  So again, for a wraparound loan to work,  the existing loan cannot have, at the middle of page 419,  cannot have a due-on-sale clause.  Also for the exam, this might be called an alienation clause  which is another term for due-on-sale.  Now, if you look at the bottom of 419,  you'll also see the term gap loan at the bottom of 419.  A gap loan is also called a bridge loan.  This is a loan between two projects.  I'll give you an example of this.  Let's say that I have a, let's say I have a loan,  I have a house that's worth a million bucks  and I owe 400,000 on it, right?  So I owe 400, it's worth a million,  I got 600,000 in equity, right?  So I'm sitting pretty, life is good.  I wanna sell my home and buy another house.  It's possible that that next seller, the house I wanna buy,  the guy selling me the house that I wanna buy  might not wanna sit around and twiddle his thumbs  or her thumbs waiting for me to sell my house  and get the equity to buy his.  So I could go to a lender  and get something called a bridge loan.  A bridge loan is basically a loan where I borrow money  against the equity in my current home,  use that as my down payment for my next project  or my next property,  and the lender will be paid that bridge loan back  when I sell the down leg.  When I sell my existing home,  he or she will get that money back.  That's called a bridge loan.  It's a loan against the equity in one property  as a bridge to buy the next one.  That's called a gap loan or a bridge loan.  Now here at the bottom of 419, fixed rate loans.  This is also something to think about,  especially today in 2014, 2015, rates are pretty low.  Somebody sent me a video here of a great friend of mine.  He's about 75 years old.  He recorded a video on YouTube.  I didn't even know he knew how to do that,  but he recorded a video on YouTube and put it up  and said, hey, look, today you might wanna take a hard look  at adjustable rate loans, not fixed.  Now I look at that, I listened to the whole video.  In fact, I watched it three times and it broke my heart  because to give someone advice, a blanket piece of advice  that adjustable rate loans are the way to go,  number one is not good  no matter what the interest rate environment is.  But number two, this notion that adjustable rate loans  are good when rates are so low, I don't understand that  because I might get an adjustable rate loan  if I'm betting that rates are gonna go down over time.  If I think rates are gonna go down over the next year,  two, three years, I might look at an adjustable rate loan  because I'm betting that during the life of my loan,  the rates are gonna go down.  It's hard for me today, with rates at four and a quarter,  four and three eighths, it's hard for me to look at this  and chart out three, four years into the future  and think to myself, I think rates are gonna go down  over time, I don't think rates are gonna go down,  I think rates are gonna go up over time.  So anyway, an adjustable rate loan is something  that might be good if it's right  for your personal situation  or your personal set of circumstances.  Now, another thing here, if you look at page 420,  you'll see a 15-year versus a 30-year loan.  Another thing to consider as you're shopping  for the right financing.  Of course, a 15-year loan's gonna result  in less interest paid over the life of the loan  because you're chipping away at that principle  a little faster, but your payment's gonna be  significantly higher on a 15-year loan  than it would be on a 30,  so that's also something to think about.  40-year loans, at the bottom of 420,  40-year loans kind of made a push in 2006,  kind of at the height of the real estate market.  People were saying, look, prices are so damn outrageous.  If we stretched out the loan term for 40 years,  might this be better?  Now, some countries, 40-year loans are common,  some countries have more than 40-year loans.  You have this generational debt, right,  where dad's house, so expensive,  son buys dad's house or son inherits that loan  and they have longer than 40-year loans  or daughter inherits that loan or whatever it is,  but anyway, 40-year loans are something to think about  because they do slice your payment a bit  because you're amortizing the loan  over a longer period, of course.  If you look at the bottom of 420,  you'll see the term interest-only loan.  Next to this for the exam, I would write the words  straight note at the bottom of page 420.  A straight note, now, of course, in the industry,  no one would call an interest-only loan a straight note.  They'd call it an interest-only loan,  but an interest-only loan is a loan  that doesn't have any amortization, right?  You're not actually paying down any of the principal.  All you're paying is interest-only.  That's, of course, known as a straight note  or an interest-only loan.  Benefit to an interest-only loan, pretty significant.  Benefit is that you're gonna have a lower payment.  Instead of paying both principal and interest,  in an interest-only loan, you're only paying interest,  right, so necessarily and obviously,  your payment's gonna be lower on an interest-only product.  Page 421 at the top, kind of a historical concept here,  an 80-20 loan.  An 80-20 loan is two loans for the entire purchase price.  So you have an 80% loan on the first,  a 20% loan on the second,  and you won't be putting any money down.  Now, one benefit to this, of course,  is that you're gonna avoid PMI,  or private mortgage insurance,  because you don't have any one loan  greater than 80% of the value, right?  You got an 80% first, you got a 20% second,  and that's the extent of the financing, right?  So you're not gonna have PMI,  because you don't have any one loan  greater than 80% of the value.  Now, how about here at the bottom of 421?  You'll see the term reverse mortgage at the bottom of 421.  A reverse mortgage is called this  because it's kind of in reverse.  Instead of you making payments to the bank,  the bank is actually making payments to you  on a reverse mortgage.  Now, you might hear that and say,  well, how does that work?  Well, first of all, you have to be over 62  in order to get a reverse mortgage, right?  So you have to be at least 62 years old  in order to make this happen.  You also have to have a decent amount  of equity in your property.  And then over time, either as an annuity,  the lender's gonna make your payments  over time up to some limit,  or you'll take a lump sum.  And this really is for people that are a little older  that are equity rich and cash poor,  so that you don't have to make any payments,  and the loan is paid off either when you pass on  or when your spouse passes on,  or there's a lot of ways you can structure these.  But it's called a reverse mortgage  because instead of you making payments to the bank,  the bank is making payments to you  cashing out a portion of your equity  if you're over a certain age.  So that's this discussion about adjustable rate loans.  Now, one thing that we should look at here  is at the bottom of 423 and the top of 424,  and how adjustable rate loans kind of work  and how the current rate is calculated.  Basically, how adjustable rates work are,  the lender generally sets something called a margin,  and that's some spread over an index.  Now, an index could be like  the London Interbank Offered Rate, also called LIBOR.  It could be the prime rate, it could be any rate.  And then the margin is just added to that.  You'll see this mathematically represented  on page 424 at the top.  We take the index plus the margin,  and this gives us our current rate, right?  So index plus the margin gives us the current rate.  So if the index is currently at like, let's say 2%,  and the margin is at 2.25%,  you're gonna add the index two to 2.25,  which is the margin,  and your rate's gonna be four and a quarter percent.  So what changes is not the margin.  What changes and kind of bounces around  that causes the overall interest rate to change,  of course, is the index.  So as the index goes up and down,  the margin gets added to that index,  and that changes your rate,  which has an effect on your payment.  Now, if you look here really quickly  at page number 425 at the top,  you'll see the term payment shock in bold  at the top of 425.  And perhaps this is appropriate  because if your index starts going up through the roof,  you're gonna get,  potentially you're gonna get some payment shock.  Now, there are caps though  in a lot of these adjustable rate loans.  There's lifetime caps on the interest rate.  There's yearly caps or periodic caps.  So this is an important thing to consider  as you choose which loan you're gonna get.  If you are gonna get a loan,  you wanna look at the index  that it's an adjustable rate loan.  You're gonna wanna look at the index that it's pegged to.  Additionally, you're also gonna want to look  at how that index has historically behaved.  If the index tends to be super volatile,  your payment could be pretty volatile too.  So that's payment shock here at the top of page 425.  At the bottom of 425 and the top of 426,  you'll see this discussion about some of these caps  that I talked about earlier.  The periodic cap at the top of page 426,  which dictates the maximum amount  that the rate could adjust in some period.  Let's say it's an annual cap.  And there's also a lifetime cap, right?  That sets the lifetime limit  that the interest rate can never go over.  So there's a periodic cap and a lifetime cap  both at the top of page 426.  Now, at the bottom of 426 and the top of 427,  there is also this discussion about negative amortization.  Now, amortization, as you might know,  is where the payment causes the balance  on the loan to decline.  So every month you make a payment,  your loan balance drops a little bit.  Every month you make a payment,  your loan balance drops a little bit, right?  That's called amortization.  Now, negative amortization is instead of the payment  causing the balance to come down,  in negative amortization,  even though you're making a payment each and every month,  the balance is rising over time.  Now, if you think about that, you might say,  well, that doesn't seem fair.  That seems like some pretty funny math  that you can make your payments each and every month  and your balance could still rise.  Of course, what's happening  in a negative amortization product  is that the payment that you're making  simply isn't enough to cover the interest due.  So maybe, let's say,  you see this sometimes with credit cards  where maybe I have a $4,000 visa balance  and my credit card statement comes  and they ask me for like 20 bucks.  I'm like, man, this is pretty cool.  I owe you $4,000 and all you want is 20 bucks from me.  Here's your 20.  Next month you get your statement  and it says payment received $20,  new balance $4,030.  And you're like, hey, what the heck?  I made you $20 last month  and my balance has gone up 30.  What's happened?  What's happened there is that mathematically,  the amount of interest that you owed that month  was, let's say, $50.  The difference between what you paid  and what you actually owed  simply gets added onto your loan balance,  causing the balance to rise over time.  That's called negative amortization.  It allows you to owe a lot of money  and only make very, very low payments.  Now, if this sounds enticing to you somehow,  it shouldn't, but if it does,  or you can live in a big house in Beverly Hills  and make a pretty low payment,  you gotta be careful because negative amortization  at the bottom of 426,  negative amortization is actually illegal.  As of October 11th of 2009,  Governor Schwarzenegger at the time  signed emergency legislation  basically banning new negative amortization  originations in California.  So you couldn't get a negative amortization loan  even if you wanted it today as the rules currently sit.  Now, if you look here really quickly at page number 428,  what's important on 428, it says arm checklist.  If you are going to take the risk  of an adjustable rate loan,  it is important to make sure that you thoroughly  and fully understand how that adjustable rate loan works.  What's the margin?  What's the index that it's tied to?  What effect are changes in that index  gonna have on my overall rate  and ultimately my monthly payment?  All of these things are important at the top of page 428  to consider if you are going to get  an adjustable rate loan.  Now, one thing that's changed actually,  and this is very interesting over the last,  let's say 20 years in underwriting,  or underwriting of course is defined  as the decision-making process  as to whether or not you're qualified for a loan.  One thing that's changed in the underwriting process  on page 430 is more of a shift  to computerized loan origination.  This is where a computer will look at your credit  and income and all this,  and your computer will basically approve or deny the loan.  So this is something that's pretty important  to just know that kind of there's a shift here,  and a lot of people are saying  that the computerized loan decision-making process  can actually or tends to be actually  a more reliable predictor of default and risk  than a manual underwriting process.  Now, I don't wanna be deceptive.  A lot of larger commercial loans and business loans  aren't really gonna rely so much  on this computerized loan origination methodology,  but it is semi-pervasive actually  in our residential world.  Now, if you look at page 431,  this financing process,  there are five steps to loan origination  and ultimately servicing the loan.  Look at number one, qualifying the borrower.  Looking at their credit, their income, their character.  Qualifying the property, right?  Making sure that the property is not gonna fall over.  It's not riddled with termites.  Making sure that the appraised value of the property  is enough to make sure we can do that loan.  Look at number three, approving and processing the loan,  a formal approval.  Number four, closing it,  getting the client to sign all that paperwork  in the processing stage,  and finally servicing the loan,  making, you know, collecting payments  and making sure that borrower is staying on track  for the duration of the loan.  Now, one thing that's important  is if you look at qualifying the borrower  in that concept on 432,  one thing that we look at, of course,  is the character of the borrower.  Looking at their late payments,  any negative credit information,  amount of credit used versus the amount of credit available.  Now, this is actually a commonly misunderstood concept  in underwriting, and that is, you know,  making sure that your available credit isn't maxed.  So you wanna try to keep those balances  on your credit cards below like 50%,  or some people say below a third  of the total available credit due.  So if you got that $1,000 credit card,  try not to make that balance go up for any length of time  more than, let's say, $400, right?  Because the way that the FICO system looks  is if you're maxing out a lot of your credit cards,  this might be an indication  that there is an impending default, right?  So that's important.  If you look at the loan application  on pages 433 through 439,  well, through 441, the font's a little big here,  but one thing that I do wanna show you in particular  is on page 440.  There is this section on page 440 about ethnicity.  Notice that it is optional.  The ethnicity of the borrower,  if I'm filling out this application on my own,  I don't have to put my ethnicity on there.  But really what's surprising to a lot of people  when they look at this section in the book  is they say, well, why the heck is this even on there?  Why is it that every single residential lender  in the United States, Wells Fargo in San Francisco,  J.P. Morgan Chase in San Diego,  you know, TD Bank in Manhattan, New York,  all of these lenders are using  the exact same loan application.  And all of them use a loan application  that asks for your race.  Now, a couple things here.  First, it's optional.  As a borrower, I do not have to specify my race.  But the reason it's on there  is for statistical monitoring purposes.  I mean, if a bank got audited,  I mean, think about this.  Is it true that a bank has to make real estate loans  in equal proportion to members of every race?  No, that's not true.  Come on, if that were true,  hey, a blue person walks in and says,  hey, we've met our blue quota for the day.  We need more purple people to make loans too.  No, right?  So that's the lenders.  It might sound good on the surface,  but lenders don't have to make equal amounts of loans  to members of every race.  But we do have to make sure that we are not making loans  on the basis of race, creed, religion,  familial status, et cetera.  So if a blue person walks in with good credit  and a red person walks in with good credit,  we gotta make sure that we're providing loan terms  regardless of ethnicity that are substantially similar.  Now, what might be surprising here,  if you look at the top of page 440,  if this application is being taken face-to-face  with the loan officer and the borrower,  the loan officer, as it says at the top of 440,  will actually have to make a reasonable guess  based on your appearance and your surname  as to what ethnicity you actually are.  Isn't that crazy?  That they're actually, they're having to guess.  Now, of course, this is to make sure that,  you know, lenders are not discriminating.  So again, if a lender were to be audited,  we wanna make sure that that lender  is not taking into account, let's say ethnicity or race,  in making a decision on whether or not to lend  and on the terms under which we extend credit.  Now, another thing that's pretty important  as we talk about qualifying the borrower  is here on 442 and 443.  These are qualifying ratios when we talk about capacity.  Capacity, of course, means like debt-to-income ratio  as it relates to capacity.  Now, debt-to-income ratio, of course, as you probably know,  is a ratio of the monthly payment  to the borrower's gross income.  Monthly payment to the borrower's gross income.  So there are two ratios that we look at here.  They are front-end and back-end.  And we talked about this in an earlier chapter  in real estate practice,  but it's probably worth repeating here at the top of 443.  Now again, remember, both front-end and back-end ratios  have to do with the borrower's gross income,  not net income.  So this is before taxes are taken out.  The front-end ratio is a ratio of the housing payment  to the borrower's gross income.  The back-end ratio is a ratio  of the borrower's housing payment  plus other long-term debt to the borrower's gross income.  So if you have a borrower  that you're in the middle of an escrow,  and that borrower says,  hey, look, you gotta come see my new car.  Now remember, the escrow hasn't closed yet.  You're still in escrow.  And the borrower says, you gotta come see my new car.  I got a brand new Mercedes.  Now, your heart's gonna start beating triple time here  because you're worried that this is gonna mess up  not your front-end ratio,  because remember, front-end ratio  is just housing to gross income.  This is actually gonna screw up your back-end ratio.  So again, the back-end ratio is a ratio of housing  plus other long-term debt to the borrower's gross income.  And this has to do with qualifying the borrower  here on pages 442 and 443.  The other thing that we're gonna need to look at  is if you look at 444 and 445,  qualifying the property, collateral.  The basic protection, of course, as you know,  the basic protection that a lender has  in the event that I don't pay  is the actual property itself, right?  Because that's the biggest risk, that I don't pay them.  The protection the lender has is the building  or the house that I've put up as collateral.  So we're gonna need to get an appraisal done on the property  to make sure that the property is worth  what we think it's worth.  The appraiser's gonna look to see  if there's any glaring problems,  big leaky roof or a bunch of construction being done.  But of course, we have to qualify the collateral  just like we have to qualify the borrower.  Now, if you look at 446 and 447,  couple of important things on these two pages.  One is at the bottom of 446,  you'll see the term RESPA at the bottom of 446.  RESPA, of course, stands for  the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act.  And what's important to remember about RESPA,  there's a few things.  The first is that RESPA's gonna require middle of 446,  something called a good faith estimate.  This good faith estimate is originated by the lender  and given to the borrower  within three business days of you applying for a loan.  So within three business days of you applying for a loan,  RESPA says that the lender has to give the borrower  a good faith estimate.  Now, again, this isn't an estimate of your interest rate.  It's not an estimate of your monthly payment.  It's an estimate of the fees associated with the loan.  Now, this only applies, as it says at the middle of 446,  this only applies to residential one to four unit property.  RESPA does not apply to commercial loans.  So if you go get a loan  to buy a big office building somewhere,  or a 10 unit building,  or you get a loan to buy some land somewhere,  that lender is not required  to give you a good faith estimate  because who requires the GFE?  The good faith estimate's required under RESPA.  RESPA only applies to residential one to four unit property.  It does not apply to commercial loans.  Another thing that RESPA prohibits,  and you'll see this at the bottom of 446  with the term CBA, or Controlled Business Arrangement,  RESPA prohibits something called a kickback.  And a kickback is money  that is given from a settlement provider,  like a title company, or an escrow company,  or a mortgage company,  money given from that settlement provider  to the real estate agent  as kind of a bribe in exchange for title orders.  So a title company could not put their arm around you  and say, hey, you're gonna be a great real estate agent,  why don't we work together?  For every escrow you give us,  or every title order you give us,  we'll give you 50 bucks.  Totally illegal, a violation of RESPA,  and a form of something called a kickback.  Now, a lot of people ask,  well, can I give money to my client?  Can I give a rebate to my buyer?  Can I discount the commission for my seller?  You can do those as long as full disclosure is made,  because that money is not being given  from a settlement provider to a real estate agent.  That money is being given  from the agent back to the client, right?  So that's not considered a kickback.  You could give money to an out-of-state broker,  or to a California broker as a referral fee.  That's not a kickback.  A kickback, again, is money flow  given from the settlement provider,  escrow, mortgage, title, back to the real estate agent.  That's a violation, of course, of RESPA.  Now, this last section from this chapter, of course,  that I wanna talk about is here at the bottom  of page 447, and it's predatory lending.  Predatory lending is basically lending practices  that essentially seek to strip a homeowner of their equity.  The constant refinancing of an existing property,  so you can add additional fees to kind of chip away  at what the equity is on the project.  That's a practice that's sometimes known as flipping.  Maybe packing, where you pack a bunch of unnecessary fees  and costs in there, and all these weird kinds of insurance.  But as a practical perspective,  we should always be aware as borrowers  and real estate agents dealing with lenders  when we see signs of predatory lending.  So that's here on 447 and 448. 