 Hello creative friends and welcome back to my channel. This journal I'm holding  here is one I have completed very recently. It's a very special journal  given to me by a very dear friend. The mention of that special friend is  pertinent to the story I want to share and the decision I have taken. So while I  talk to you I'm going to flip through my book so that you can see some paintings  that I've chosen to show you so that this video is not just words to listen  to. Every once in a while you meet special people that have a knack for  understanding you very quickly. They offer insight about your inner turmoil. They  come from a place of love and respect. That special friend is one of those  people. I'm blessed with more than one such friend. I'm a very lucky person. And  so begins the story of four friends in one painting. Lately I have been dealing  with creative stress. A stress related to making videos. More precisely stress  related to everything that leads up to the video making. What to draw? What to  paint? What color? What approach? Planned or spontaneous? To doodle or not to  doodle? Making decisions and overanalyzing them only to change my  mind over and over again until the very last minute when there's no time left to  change my mind. And then the video gets done but by that time I'm exhausted and  anticipate the long edit that is inevitable. You see the problem is not in  the making of the painting itself. It's all that leads up to it and what comes  after. Am I burnt out or close to it? Why you ask? Why do you go through this  scenario every week? Because it's accumulated fatigue. Because there's a  lot to be done. And because I started paying attention to the numbers. I've had  many instances when I have felt pulled to cater to what is expected of me or  what is popular amongst my videos. And from a business perspective it does make  for a good strategy. However from a creative point of view it's not a  sustainable motivation. The creative inside of me cringes and that creates  confusion and frustration. It's like having two separate entities within me  who are battling against each other. In the end the need for being authentic  always wins but at great cost. This page is extremely meaningful to me and before  you ask there is no video on it. This was done when the friend who gave me this  journal and another friend came for a visit back in April 2019. Back when for a  few days I had allowed myself to be creative without any cameras on nor  expectations nor intention to present my work to anyone else other than my  companions. I remember the feeling during the creative process. A complete  immersive experience. Feeling like I was the paint flowing across the paper. Being  at one with the water. It's no wonder that I appear on this page in full  contemplation feeling peaceful and comforted by the tall trees and warmed  by the rocks. A painting I created surrounded by soul sisters united by our  passion for art, good conversation and lots of laughter. Not too long after that  I was commissioned for a project in which I was happy and honored to  participate. The commission was for two more special friends who still to this  day graciously and lovingly offer support and comfort in both my private  and business lives. The minute I accepted their offer the anxieties started. Am I  good enough to meet this challenge? What if I can't deliver on time? I was in dire  need of my friend who gave me said journal. In her very astute but simple  way she said to me, why don't you flip through to that page in your journal?  Remember the painting you did when we were at your place? The lady sitting on  the rock in the forest? When you gave yourself permission to just paint freely  for yourself? When you had the time? When you made the time for it? Take a deep  breath, remember and trust. I will never forget that conversation and just like  that not one but two paintings were born. I gave them a choice, they picked both. I  had a conversation with these two friends yesterday. They are my safe place,  a place where I can say whatever I want without being judged. They understood. We  talked quite a while about my decision, about the two commissioned paintings.  They came back, they resurfaced and all of a sudden I was brought back to her.  We've come full circle, her and I. I've come a long way. This piece is pivotal, it  holds so much meaning. It played a very important part in many decisions and  events and yet it is a simple and unassuming page in my journal. I hold it  dear and close to my heart. It is now clear to me, the need to slow down is  undeniable. Since September 2019 I've been presenting art videos every week  with a few exceptions here and there. I want to continue sharing my art with all  of you to inspire and to connect. I want to do it for a long long time and it is  with this firm intention that I will now reduce the amount of time I publish  videos from weekly to bi-weekly or fortnightly every two weeks. I know  there are quite a few awesome patrons here so I want to reassure them this  decision has no impact whatsoever on all the videos and photos I share on Patreon  and for those that are not part of the Patreon family and are curious I will  leave a link in the description as well as in a pinned comment so that you can  take a look at it if you're interested in watching more videos. I'm not going to  lie, I'm a little scared. Scared that you'll forget me. But mostly I'm scared  that I'll forget myself if I don't slow down and that would be regretful. With  that being said I wish you a beautiful day full of joyful creativity and I will  see you in two weeks on August 1st.  you 