 Hi everybody and welcome to this short video about Socrative. Now I'm not going  to go into too much depth today because I'm really hoping that you will take the  opportunity to explore at your own pace. But I'm going to give you a bit of an  overview of the teacher view of Socrative so you can see how everything  works. Now when you first log in the most important thing to realize is that there  are two different pages depending on what you want to do. So when you want to  launch an activity, so when you've walked into the classroom and you're ready to  to use Socrative with students, you're going to be using the launch page.  Whereas when you want to build quizzes and you want to create content for  students, you're going to be using the quizzes tab along the top. You'll also  see that there are rooms, reports and results. The room here is customizing  what you want your room to be called. So when students log in, a great thing about  Socrative is they don't need to have lots and lots and lots of information in  order to access a room. It just asks them to type in their teachers room name.  So I made mine shut up to make it nice and easy for my students. The next  page here is reports, so you can always go back and download a spreadsheet of  student reports, which is really powerful. It's great to do before interviews. And  this last one here, it will show you if you have an activity that's currently  running with your students. So if you're still collecting data, you will see this  little icon here tells us that we are live. And to finish something, you just  click that finish button there. Okay, and I'm going to go back to the launch page.  So that gives you an overview of these. Now with your launch page here, there are  a few different activities that you can run. So when you're in class and you want  to ask a quick question, that is this one down the bottom. If you've used Poll  Everywhere before, this is very similar. It's just a matter of clicking it, asking  them a true or false question on the board, and you're then going to get their  responses very quickly. And this is really powerful, instant data from  students. Okay, if you would like to ask them some questions before they leave  the room, you know, but at the end of the lesson you want to see what they've  learned that lesson. Exit tickets are my absolute favorite tool within Socrative.  And you can see that I've had to prepare absolutely nothing for this. I've just  clicked exit ticket. And when students log on and they enter your room code,  they'll see three questions. The first is, how well did you understand today's  material? What did you learn in today's class? And then the last one here is just  the teacher's question. And this is where you would write a question on the board,  something specific to that lesson, and it's really testing their knowledge of  whether they learned what you were teaching them that day. Okay, here we go.  Go back to the launch page. These here, so quiz operates very much like a survey  monkey or a Google Doc, if you've used those before. And to create quizzes, you  need to use the quizzes bar here. So using this one here, clicking add a quiz,  you can either create or import. And if we click create here, you can see that  you get three options of questions. You can ask them multiple choice, true or  false, or short answer. And it's really powerful too, because you can auto mark  these as well. So when typing in a multiple choice question, you can decide  which of those is correct, and Socrative will auto mark that for you. Alright,  let's just go back to launch, if it will let us. Save and exit. Brilliant. So that  is, we've got quick question, exit ticket, and quiz. And this last one here is  space race. This is a lot of fun. Students love this. It's exactly the same  as a quiz, except they're doing it in groups and they're competing against one  another. And what's really great is when you conduct a space race, you pick your  quiz. Here we go. We are going to have two teams. The icon is going to be the  rocket today. No countdown. And we're going to give question feedback. So you  can see here that when we do this, you put students into your teams, and they  then work together to answer the questions in the quiz. And depending on  both the accuracy of their answers, and the speed of their answers, their  rockets will move across the page. And obviously they're competing to get their  rocket across to the other side the fastest. So that is a general explanation  of Socrative. I recommend having a play with all of the different tools, and  really experimenting with your class, and hearing what they say about it as well.  Good luck everybody! 