 Assalamualaikum and welcome to another exciting video on IT and Automation Academy's YouTube  channel.  In this video, we are going to learn about DCS, Distributed Control System.  If you guys haven't watched our earlier video and you want to know the difference between  PLC and DCS, there's a link on the screen, you have to just click on that and watch it.  In this video, we are not going to talk about the difference between PLC and DCS, rather  we will focus only on DCS, Distributed Control System.  When we talk about DCS, it's a computerized control system for processes and plants that  consist of large number of the control loops, especially analog one, in which, you know,  your controllers are actually distributed, like you got different areas and each area  have its own controller.  So in short, if in the case we talk about the DCS, DCS is very much famous in the industries  like petrochemical, fertilizer, oil and gas industries, and all big plants like power  plants, you will definitely see DCS there.  First thing is definitely process and you know that in a process industry, there are  different parameters, you have to sense them and you need instrumentation for that.  First and foremost important thing, if you focus on my cursor here, you can see that  that's a process.  And in a process industry, you got few important parameters like temperature, flow, level,  speed, you know, density, and these all sort of things actually require instrumentation  to measure pressure, level, flow, temperature, all these sort of parameters.  You can see here we got different instrumentations like transmitters, we got in, and we got some  final control elements like you can see here, control walls, you can have a fans, you can  have a motors, these all things actually lies on your field level.  And then after that, on a DCS network, you see here, you got in three areas here, and  each area have its own unique controller, rather relying on one controller, you put  in three different areas have its own DCS controller system.  One thing to clarify here, in a DCS network, in this DCS control cabinet, you would have  two controllers instead of one.  So one would be your main controller, and one would be redundant controller.  For instance, in this unit, if DCS controller by any means stop working, like your one controller  stop working, you got in redundant controller to take care about the job, you got another  unit and you got in, you know, third unit and these each unit have its own similar kind  of a system.  So one thing to understand, like PLCs, you got in here, put modules, you got in power  supply, similar way you got output modules, you got digital ins, digital out, analog ins  and analog out.  If signal is coming from the transmitters, it have to go to analog input module, which  would be here, one card here, it start with the TBs, domino blocks, and then from there  on, you got that connection to analog input module.  So similar way you got in some digital signals in the field.  So if in the case you want to brought in into the DCS network, that would get into your  digital input card.  And then similar way you got digital output cards and you got some analog output cards.  There on, these all controllers are actually connected to single common network.  You can see here, these all three controllers are actually three areas are actually connected  to each other through control network.  And these are all sharing the data to one network, which is actually going to be connected  to your control room environment.  You got in some very important components in your control room.  So first and foremost, important thing is your engineering workstation.  What is that actually?  Engineering workstation is there to actually program these all controllers and also to  program the graphics you can see here.  And then you got an OPC server here.  What is the purpose of OPC server?  OPC server connects your DCS system to any third party device that can be SCADA, that  can be any other device that requires the information that requires the tags that are  like temperatures, pressure level and flow.  All the tags that are in DCS can be actually exchanged to any third party device by using  that OPC server.  What is the purpose of this historian?  That's very important to understand.  Historians are there actually to keep a record of historical data.  What are the pressure, temperature, level, flow values in back in 10 years?  How you can see that?  You are definitely going to need a historian for that.  Historians actually store historical data of all control parameters, trend or some other  graphics to be printed.  You require a printer for that.  Then you got in operator screens here and operator screens are there to actually visualize  for sure temperature, what's the level, what are the different process conditions that  exist in your plan and specific area.  You definitely require some visualization for that.  And for sure in a DCS you got in its own customized graphics operator screens where you can visualize  all process.  What's going on?  What's the temperature?  What's the flow?  What's the level?  You definitely need to know that and for sure you can see all that in operator screen.  Now in a next one, we are definitely going to talk about what is the difference between  DCS and SCADA and for sure then from there on we would have DCS commissioning step.  If in the case you are interested, do let me know in the, if you like this video, hit  the like button.  And if in the case you haven't subscribed our YouTube channel, consider subscribing  Till next video, take care and Allah Hafiz. 