 This is Barry Belosis, one of the musculoskeletal radiology fellows at Stanford University.  16 year old previously healthy male defensive back  concerned for splenic laceration. In the emergency setting,  focused abdominal sonography for trauma  could be performed to evaluate for fluid in the abdominal quadrants.  CT abdomen and pelvis with contrast should be performed in unstable patients with negative FAST or in those stable patient with  positive FAST.  FAST could either be repeated or a CT could be performed depending on the patient's clinical picture.  The patient in this case have this CT abdomen and pelvis with contrast.  Here on their axial imaging at the level of the spleen, we can see a dark band or hypodensity  traversing the body of the spleen  consistent with splenic laceration.  We can also see this hypodensity throughout the abdomen  consistent with hemopertinium.  At an axial slice just below the spleen, we can see that the defect  goes all the way and involves the splenic hilum.  There is also adjacent subscapular hematoma and again, we can see the hemopertinium.  In the setting of trauma,  CT abdomen and pelvis with delayed imaging is usually performed to look for active contrast  extravasation such as in this patient. In our coronal reformat, we can see  that there is a large laceration of the spleen and  on our delayed imaging, we can see that in the superior aspect of the spleen is a  hyperdensity  not seen on our portal venous face. This is consistent with active contrast extravasation.  We can also see a large hemopertinium throughout the abdomen.  The AAST or  American Association for the Surgery of Trauma has a spleen injury scale that we use to grade splenic injury.  As you can see,  splenic contusion is not one of the criteria.  When we're looking at the grading system, we look at the subscapular hematoma  in relation to the surface area of the spleen, the parenchymal laceration depth,  any evidence of vascular injury or  a shattered spleen. 