 Hello. I have an interesting test that I'm going to do today. So I've worked in coffee  for like 30 years, 20 something years, 13 years, Sweet Maria's, and I've never cupped  green coffee before. And what I mean is green, like this. In fact, what I've done is on the  probat, we have pulled samples of coffee all along the roast spectrum, different degrees  of roast, or under-roast, up through our finished roast here. And the coffee is Panama Finca  Camiseta. It's a nice, you know, standard central hard bean coffee. And I'm going to  cup all these, if God willing. One of the things that's come up lately is that a lot  of people are talking about under-roasting coffee. You have two camps. You have people  very critical of how heavily roasted coffee is, and people in the online twittering stuff  about how I don't want to taste roast in coffee. And so I sent out some twitter that was like,  well, you have to taste roast in coffee because coffee is roasted. Green coffee, as a raw  ingredient, does have higher percentages of certain types of acids and sugars that are  transformed in the roast and to some degree lost. However, at the same time, roasting  is a really complex chemical reaction. There's intermediate compounds that are formed and  then are basically roasted off. So what you start with green, what you have in these intermediate  phases of roasting, and what you end up with in your final degree of roast are very different.  You can say, I don't want to taste over-roast. I don't want to taste a roast flavor dominating  the coffee. But especially because of the bitterness of compounds like trigonelling  that are diminished in roasting, you need to roast coffee. So anyway, because there's  a lot higher percentage of acids in green coffee and other compounds that are intermediate,  I thought it would be really fun to just taste the coffee here. So that's what I'm going  to try to do. And we'll see how they grind. I'm not really sure. And how I can flush the  grinder. And let's see what we get. Okay, the water is ready now. What's really interesting  in grinding these, so this is green coffee. In grinding these, the smells, not even so  much from the absolute green coffee, but from the intermediate phases. Look at that beautiful  head on there. These intermediate phases, the yellow and the light brown were unbelievable.  I already think I've learned a lot because of the particular type of bitterness. This  grain underdeveloped bitterness that I've tasted before in some commercial coffees.  I think that this is just incredible. This one right here, and I'm smelling as I pour  this, unbelievable. So I think as a training tool, this is really cool, but man, this one  is so bitter smelling right now. The Malcona egg, the poor grinder there, geez, it suffered  through these samples. I flushed it out with each sample, but it was really pretty intense.  I've never seen coffee, you know, there's 12 grams in a cup, and I'm not sure, like  I said, I haven't seen coffee not form a crust like this, the head on the cup, so I'm wondering  if it's really going to brew with the same parameters that we expect for roasted coffee.  So I don't know, we'll see. Let's see, I've got to get my second kettle, we're running  out for our last cup. Let's get a little more water.  Okay, so we're going to taste coffee, Panama Finca, La Camiseta, all the way along the  chain, from degrees of roast, from our moderate light degree of roast, which is our Finnish  one, City Plus, City Roast, something pre-first crack, right here, just right at first crack,  and then our green ones, which will be really fun.  So that's nice, classic, central, has some good development of body, kind of chocolate,  sweet, good acidity, even here it's tasting a little bit underdeveloped, a little light,  a little more like citrus kind of notes, but a little thin, slight graininess, so that  roast is kind of City, City Minus. This is definitely looking a little underdeveloped.  Oddly, it's actually a little bit better than this one, I think, but very grainy, we've  got grain flavors going on. Right here, it's like right at first crack, this one, so it  wouldn't really be acceptable. I can already see the color is really thinning out, so really light.  Graininess with that kind of grain bitterness starting to come up, sort of, not oat, but  like wheat chaff flavor. Okay, this one is really just before first crack, you can tell  it hasn't expanded at all, the coffee, and it's really looking light now. I mean, it's  a real tan, light color. Yeah, actually kind of doughy, bready mouthfeel, definitely, there's  commercial coffee that tastes like that, I think because it's Quaker-y, because there's  details. Okay, this is where it gets interesting, this is nowhere near first crack, maybe first  crack in this roast is 400, 405 degrees, this is going to be 320 degrees on that scale,  extremely yellow. Wow, that's really tasting like, it's like wheat, wheat paste, but almost  like a little dirt, definitely kind of tightening, tightening flavor. Okay, this is just like  an orange brown. That's definitely tasting like wheat bread dough, just like uncooked  bread dough, but the bitterness is really, definitely, definitely that grain tightening,  bittering flavor, no, nothing we think of as coffee in that beverage, that's just not  a coffee drink. That's, it's just a continuation, dry, bready, I mean, it kind of has some  green tea qualities, if you look at it that way, but there's, and then this is really  strange, how green coffee has this color, whereas, you know, you actually get some yellowing  and browning, but the green coffee is darker. And also, oh my, there's an interesting layer  in the cup down there, between the green, it looks like maybe just the chaff has settled,  the silver skin. That tastes like Play-Doh or crayon or something. That's really not  a coffee flavor at all. So, that was pretty interesting to look at these from that perspective.  The color difference alone is great, but I think this is really interesting, the smell,  the smells from these lighter ones here, grinding the coffee, whatever it is, the raw coffee,  really strong bittering smells, really interesting. So, kind of a fun, not as stupid of a, just  a haphazard lesson as I thought, I actually got something out of this in terms of identifying,  you know, especially Triganelline, which is the compound that, as you roast, is actually  diminished in darker roasts, and Triganelline is an extremely bitter compound. So, but I'm  going to go back and taste these some more. This was really fun. 