 I mentioned in a previous video that I've been watching a lot of these Hispanic crafters  working their magic with some newspapers and magazines and white glue, basically.  There's this one gal, I swear to you, she could probably build a house out of newspapers  and Elmers.  I just know it.  She does amazing things.  Anyway, I've been really inspired by them and have been rolling paper tubes like a crazy  woman.  I just thought that the paper beads were addictive.  The tubes are worse.  At least they are for me.  And it may be because they're a little bit easier for me to do.  They're still not pleasant to do if you have hand issues.  You know, they're kind of like paper beads.  Your hands are probably going to cramp up and complain, but they're not as difficult,  I don't think anyway, because they're not as small.  You don't have to hold on to such a small thing.  So I started watching these videos, needed to make some tubes.  I had made some before several years ago and they're still up in my art room.  I never did use them for anything because I wasn't really inspired.  But I discovered that I made them wrong.  Not wrong, but in a not very efficient way.  There's a better way.  And what I learned is you need a strip of paper.  Don't use the whole magazine page.  Cut it into sections and that makes your tube easier to fold and roll.  If you use the whole sheet, then the middle part of your paper tube gets really thick  because it's got a lot of layers rolled up in there.  And when it's really thick, and if you're wanting to coil it into a little spiral like  this, you're going to have trouble because it's hard to do with thin paper, but thick  paper, really hard.  So what you do is you cut it into pieces.  For like a standard magazine page, you would just open the magazine, maybe cut it in half  down the middle.  That's all you need.  I've been doing about four inch wide strips.  This was an old textbook of Taylor's that she couldn't resell.  It was a, I think it was Art History.  And it was one of those that, you know, some textbooks you just can't sell back.  So we were going to, it was in a Goodwill box and I went and fished it out because it  had some pretty colors on some of the pages.  So I cut the entire book up like that and then I pulled a couple other books out too.  She's got, she has this Environmental Science, which has some color in it and the weight  of the paper is good.  Not too heavy, but it's got a glossy finish and I like that.  And then I also found a Sociology and this one has some good color in it, as well as  this even thinner paper, not quite as glossy, but it just has a nice finish on it.  So old textbooks.  There you go.  And boy, you can find old textbooks for next to nothing at thrift stores.  They're always there, if you happen to need them.  But of course you can use whatever magazines come into your house or newspapers as well.  I don't care as much for the newspapers, I'll tell you why in a minute, but the magazines  are great.  So all you do is cut your page down into about a four inch strip.  Doesn't have to be perfect, doesn't have to be straight, doesn't have to be exact.  The only thing it does have to be is as smooth as you can get it on the edges.  And some of these will have to be kind of trimmed up a little.  I found this out when I started doing some newspapers and I thought, okay, cutting these  is going to be really tedious, I'll just lay a straight edge down and rip them into sections,  you know, four inch wide strips.  Which that's what you usually do for paper mache, it works out fine.  Not so much for this, because you do sometimes get a little, see the edge gets a little bit  like that, or a little jagged where it gets torn, and that doesn't work because when you  roll it, those little jagged edges stick out.  So the whole tearing didn't work, but I did find that it wasn't a big deal to just, you  know, fold the page up like this and cut it and make the strips that way, because it  doesn't have to be perfect.  So you take your magazine page or your newspaper page, and by the way, the Sunday paper with  all of the sales ads and the big colorful grocery ads, oh those are great, because there's  so much color in them.  So you know, Sunday, perfect.  This is one of the textbook pages, you need a skewer, this is one of the bigger skewers,  and I don't know where I got it, seems like I've seen them at the craft stores, I might  have even gone to the grocery store, but it's one of the, you know, kind of heavy duty ones,  I don't know what size it is, but it's kind of the larger skewer, slightly smaller than  a drinking straw, put it that way.  You take this, you lay it on the corner, one corner of your strip of paper, you don't  need an exact, what do you call that, like a right angle down at the bottom, you want  it like this.  Oh, I should have looked up my geometry.  What is that, like a, that's a right triangle, right?  And that's an isosceles, I forget, okay, look at me spouting stuff off like I know what  I'm talking about.  Fold it in, start rolling, and you just want to make sure that it stays snug as you roll.  Rolling, pick it up, and then the kind of glue I use depends on the paper, I probably  should have got some different glue.  I'll use like a thicker tacky glue on some of this thick paper, but you just need, even  Elmer's would work on the newspapers and thinner papers.  Pull your skewer out, and there's your tube.  You know, takes practically no time at all, there is a learning curve, so you'll probably  do at least two dozen before you get into the group, that's about what it took me.  And when you finish, you may notice that one end of your tube is a little bit bigger around  than the other.  Usually this end down here that you started with will stay nice and tight, but the one  at the end, where you end up, is a little bit bigger.  You want that.  Of course, you don't want it to be huge, you don't want a huge difference, but if you look  at it and you go, okay, I can tell, this is slightly bigger than this one, glue, that's  okay, because you're actually going to need that, but that's all you do.  And then you'll want to make about a million of these, because that's what it will take  to really do anything with them.  So after you've done about a million, then you can actually make something, but I really  do find this soothing.  Let me show you the newspaper ones.  I found that the actual newspaper pages, like this is an actual newsprint newspaper  page, I don't care for these as much, they're a little bit harder to roll up for me, it's  hard to keep it tight, and plus they turn my hands black.  And I usually just hold, I'm just kind of gently holding it together with my left fingers  like this, just to keep it from spreading out and getting too wide, but you just have  to maintain a constant tension, and don't let go.  This is another reason why the longer newspaper strips irritate me.  Okay, again.  And you'll figure out whichever way works best for you, sometimes keeping it laying  on the table is best, other times it's better if you pick it up and do this.  You just have to figure out which way you like, and whatever you do, don't let go.  A little glue, put it in, pull your skewer out, and there you have it.  I don't know if you can tell, this end is a little bit wider than this end, not like  you know, freakishly so, but a little bit wider, and that's okay, because that will  be useful when you start coiling.  So there you have it.  Now, after you've made a billion, like so, these are mostly some of the glossy ads from  the Sunday paper.  Then you can start coiling them, or you know, you can just lay them out like this and make  stuff out of them.  I've seen some wall art and some clocks and some boxes covered with them, you know, that  kind of thing, which is great, I love all that stuff.  One thing you can make that's very easy is a bowl, and you start by making a coil like  this, and I may do like a demo video for one of these, but this won't be it.  This one is a base, it's already glued together, it doesn't move, but you just start coiling,  and if you're going to coil the strips like this, or you're going to make a bowl, it's  easier if you flatten them first.  This didn't occur to me until like just, I think it was yesterday, and I saw a, it was  a blog post, or maybe an Etsy shop, of a woman who sells stuff made out of magazine  pages, but they're like several hundred dollars for each one of the things that she sells,  because they're awesome.  And she talks about the process, and you know why they cost so much is because it's just  so time consuming to roll all the papers and then flatten them, and she said that, and  then flatten them, and I was like, oh, she flattens them?  Because I had just been, you know, taking the, where's the one I just did?  I had just been taking the thing, you know, start here, like that, a little dab of glue,  and then just roll, you know, just like that, and just flatten it myself as I went along.  That's what I was doing.  It didn't occur to me to flatten them out first, and then coil them.  And you'll see, there's some bowls and paper stuff made out of magazine pages that have  been folded instead of coiled, and that's an option, too.  I just don't like the folding thing, but I don't, that's not soothing to me, this is  soothing to me, folding is just irritating, I don't know why, but it is in that context  anyway.  But, she said flatten, and I went, oh, and she didn't say how she flattened them or what  she used to flatten them, but I found that a pasta machine works nicely, and I've got  one of those silver crank tabletop pasta machines that has never seen a drop of pasta in its  entire life, it is for craft purposes only, and I used to run a lot of polymer clay through  it, but it is perfect for just running these little dudes through there, flattens them  right out, makes them much easier to coil, and the coils are much neater.  So there's you an option for that.  If you don't have a pasta machine, you could probably use, if you have a die-cut machine  with one of those long plates on it, that would probably work, too.  Just anything to squish them.  And then you can coil them and make them into something like this bowl that I made.  And it is nothing but coil, I think that this one was part of the art history book, and  it's the coiled tubes, and the reason that you need one end to be bigger than the other,  while you're coiling, and you want to, you know, you get one tube coiled and you're ready  to add the next, you want to be able to slip one end into the other.  And if you have one end that's always a little bit bigger than the other, it's much easier  to get them to fit together.  So that's why that one end bigger is actually a good thing.  So, and I'll put the video, the link for the video that I watched the Hispanic woman doing  this with, because she just does it really well.  And just kind of made the bowl, really winged it, looked at some videos, but kind of made  it up as I went, did the whole base like this, which, you know, is really easy, you just  keep adding coils until it gets to the size you want, and then just started, instead of  leaving them flat, just used a little glue to build them up as I went.  So, and there's a couple different ways to do that, I'm going to try another way too.  And when it was done, I used some markers, just some of these Faber-Castell markers,  and just kind of scribbled on it, really, that's all I did, random scribbles.  And with the color and print that was already on there, and combined with the marker, which  is really kind of transparent, it just came out looking really cool.  So I like it.  And all I used to seal it when it was done is, I have a little container of watered-down  Elmers, and that's what I used.  Now that it's finished with the color and everything, I will put a final, a better sealer  on it, like a varnish or something, or Mod Podge would be fine, you know, I mean, you're  not trying to get it dishwasher-safe or anything, just sealed enough to use.  So these are fun to do, and if you want to kick it up a notch, bam, bam!  There's these.  This is a basket that I made, and this was another, this was a, oh my gosh, I've got  a million paper beads, what am I going to do?  So I came up with this little thing, to put a bead in the middle of each little coiled  thingy.  And this whole thing is made out of Taylor's old art history book.  And I was inspired to make this by this basket that I have, this most awesome basket that  I have and that I love, and ooh, I don't know if you can see it without me spilling it,  it is made out of bottle caps.  And I did not make it, I bought it, and I think I bought it at Barnes & Noble.  They had a bunch of stuff like this at one time that was made, it's like made in Africa  or something, and it was some kind of special, you know, imported, maybe fundraising, crafty  things that they had.  And I just loved it, because it's, it's so, because some of these I've not really even  heard of before, and you know, others are relatively mainstream, but it's just so rustic  and cool, and I love it, this is just one of my favorite things.  And I've collected some water bottle caps in it, and if you happen to know why I'm collecting  these water bottle caps, could you just leave that in the comments?  That would be really great, because I'm not sure, I am quite sure that I need to collect  them, but now that my little bucket's full, I have stopped, but I really should do something  with them, or at least get some ideas, and there is a rather large box in my garage full  of these that I got from a, um, yeah, volunteering at a color run, and I, you know, we gave out  like 4,000 bottles of water, and I kept every cap!  So, I have a lot of plastic water bottle caps, and one day I'm going to be really glad that  I have them, but that day is not today, so if you could just tell me why I have them  and make me glad, that would be so great.  So that was kind of the design inspiration for this, because I love that bottle cap basket  so much, I just sort of mimicked the design here with these little spirals, and these  were three tubes, book page tubes together, and then I tied them together, this is some  hemp cord stuff, and I still haven't trimmed it off, and the bottom is a cereal box, Cocoa  Puffs, no, no, no, no, not Cocoa Puffs, Golden Grams, it's a piece of a Golden Gram cereal  box that I just put some of the tubes on for the bottom, and I used a combination of just  some techie, that techie glue type stuff, and then there's some hot glue in here too,  Jason drilled all of the little holes for the beads so that I could run the hemp up  through there, and then I had intended to put handles on it like the other one, but  when I got to that point, I was so darn sick of looking at it, I just wanted to call it  done, so I just stuck these beads on top, which I wasn't really crazy about, and I'm  still not just loving it, but it's ok, because it's kind of funky and weird and different,  and I like it, I mean ideally it would have been great to put paper beads on here, but  making a round paper bead is a beast, it's a beast that I don't like, so I wasn't going  to do that, but this, I thought this was a really good use for the whole bunch of paper  beads, and I really love the way it turned out, and I thought that I might sell these  on Etsy, and I still might, I'm not sure, but they're going to cost about four million  dollars each, because that's how much trouble they are to make, and I'm sure the second  one will be much easier, now that I know what I'm doing, and I know what not to do, but  yeah, this was a trip, so there's that, and that's what this base is right here, I'm working  on another one, but I want it to, I'm working on a round, kind of a large bowl, with some  of these open thingies, and I will probably use some more paper beads in there too, so  there you go, ideas for upcycling some newspapers, magazines, and textbooks, and for using all  of the paper beads that I'm sure you have, and for filling up all of your spare time,  because I know you have tons of it, so, oh, I did, I forgot to show this, which I'll show  you right quick, and you know, I'll point you to the video, because like I said, I learned  from somebody else, and don't really have anything to add, and I may do a bowl tutorial  video at some point, but this is not that point, but I did want to show you, to get  the open coil like this, is just use a something, I had this little lotion bottle, and it was  about the size that I wanted, so that's what I used to coil the things around, like that,  and that made the open section, and just depending on how big of a container you use, you can  make some with smaller ones, or bigger openings in them, so that's how you get that, that  look. So, um, okay, until I think of something else urgent to talk to you about, that's it.  So, let's just be extra awkward and say, the end. 