 A consultation by the House of Lords in 2018 revealed that quote there is a real  confusion in terms of terminology with terms such as modular, off-site,  prefabrication, modern methods of construction, volumetric and panelized  all being used. So this is why we will go through some key terms as they will be  used in the remaining modules and videos. So we will start with modern methods of  construction or MMC for short. MMC includes all the approaches that aim to  optimize the construction process to obtain better products in less time. This  can mean for example any building methods that improves efficiency, quality  or environmental performance. In this way MMC includes but are not limited to  off-site construction. Instead off-site construction is a way to achieve MMC.  Off-site on the other hand is a construction method that adds  substantial value to a product via the manufacture and pre-assembly of  components, elements or modules in a factory before installation in the final  location. So off-site is all about transferring some of the building works  to a factory. There are four main categories of off-site construction.  Sub-assemblies and components, panelized systems, volumetric systems and hybrid  systems. These can be in any material steel, concrete, timber or indeed a hybrid  material. Sub-assemblies and components are pre-manufactured elements you will  be familiar with such as stairs, doors, windows, eye joists or steel elements.  Panelized systems consist of wall panels and floor cassettes which may or  may not have a structural function. Open panels are typically without insulation  and include only the structural elements and if applicable sheeting on one side.  Closed panels include insulation, sheeting on both sides and a service  zone and can also have internal lining, external cladding, windows and doors  fitted in the factory. Whereas SIPs or Structural Insulated Panels are solid  insulation sandwiched with glue between two layers of oriented strand boards or  OSB for short. Volumetric systems represent three-dimensional units that  enclose a usable space often also called modular. They are typically fully  finished internally and can also be finished externally and include several  rooms. Pods are a smaller non-structural type of volumetric system which are often  used for bathrooms or plant rooms especially in hotels and student  accommodation. Hybrid systems cover a wide variety of construction techniques  where different systems or materials are used in combination. Where did off-site  construction originate from? Off-site is not anything new and it can be traced  back to the Middle Ages when carpenters would often assemble the frames of  buildings in the yards to ensure that all elements fitted together. The frames  were then marked and dismantled to be transported to site and reassembled. This  system was known as crook frame. In the 19th century this technique developed  into the familiar timber balloon and platform framing. In the 1830s John  Manning, a London carpenter and builder pioneered the Manning cottage, a timber  house that was standardized and designed to be transported overseas and  assembled by unskilled workers. Then during the Crimean War in the 1850s  British engineer Isambard Kingdom Brunel designed the Rencoe Hospital. The  timber frame structure was manufactured in the UK, flat-packed, shipped and  assembled on-site by unskilled workers in under six months. In the 1970s the  Nakagin Tower capsule hotel, the first of its kind, was constructed in Tokyo, Japan.  It was designed for business people in the city who needed a simple overnight  housing solution. Each of the capsule modules was designed to be disconnected  from the central core for replacement or maintenance. Later on in the 1980s a  German engineer conceived the first forms of mass timber construction by  laminating wooden planks together with nails, screws or dowels to form a mass  timber panel. So we have shown that off-site construction is not new, it has  been around since at least the Middle Ages. Today it is applicable across  sectors including housing, education, hospitals, infrastructure such as bridges  and roads. But why would you build using off-site construction? There are six key  drivers behind the use of off-site construction in the UK. The leading one  is sustainability, where off-site can help with waste materials reduction and  integration into the circular economy. The second is regulatory, such as  international protocols. The third driver is digitization with emphasis on  building information modeling. Productivity is also an important driver  and lean optimization can be used in off-site manufacturing. The fifth driver  is human capital or people with a need for more apprenticeships. The final  driver is culture with the need for more collaborative working practice. Off-site  construction offers many benefits. The factory environment provides a cleaner  and safer place of work. Production is more efficient, therefore performances  are enhanced. The factory environment guarantees higher quality, more  predictable timescales, better performance with fewer defects and  higher customer satisfaction. The optimized use of materials allows for  reduction of waste. The application of building information modeling and  automation allows for quality control through virtual reality and augmented  reality. The design process for off-site construction systems can be described as  front-loaded. With off-site construction we often use an approach known as DFMA.  This is Design for Manufacturing and Assembly. This includes manufacturing  process and standard sizing limitations, dimensional tolerances of the chosen  off-site system, transportation restrictions, supply chain, manufacturing  capacity and site-specific restrictions. We have some examples of off-site  construction from across the UK. Firstly looking at a high-rise building in  London. Known as the Cheese Grater, designed in 2014 by architects Roger  Stark Harbour and Partners, with Arup being the engineers. The building was a  combination of steel and concrete with highly prefabricated components  manufactured in Ireland and Northern England. The superstructure was  constructed in a very short time of approximately seven days per floor, 48  floors in total within 11 months. Moving north to Glasgow, this mid-rise  apartment building in Earlesley Road. It is the tallest timber building in  Scotland and was completed in 2017. The project was led by CCG and designed by  Mast Architects. It was built using cross-laminated timber which was  manufactured in Germany. It took 16 weeks to install the CLT and the project won  the Structural Timber Award 2018. Off-site is not one way of building. Off-site is  not limited to one material. Off-site is not one building type. Off-site combines  a range of materials, products and building types. Off-site is efficient.  Off-site is a safe and clear environment. Off-site uses modern technology. Off-site  is adaptable to clients' needs. Off-site requires collaborative working and  teams. Congratulations, well done on completing the Off-site Fundamentals  video. 