 Hi, my name is Scott Naismith. I'm a landscape painter. This tutorial is about colour. Now  colour use is of massive importance in my paintings and it's of a massive importance  to know the theory about colour before you try and attempt to paint or design anything  in colour. Every mark that you put on a design or you put onto canvas has three elements  to it that make up that colour. It has a hue, it has a saturation and it has a tonal value.  So let's take the first of those, hue. Hues are all the basic primary and secondary colours  that make up the rainbow. They are the colours that make up light. They are just wavelengths  of white light. The primaries, yellow, red, blue, make up in the transitions of those  primaries the secondaries which are a mixture of two of the primaries. The secondaries being  orange, purple and green. Now this rainbow of colour can be presented as a wheel. One  colour wavelength at the end joined onto the beginning creates a wheel. Now what this wheel  does is it allows us to understand the balance of colour so that we as artists and designers  can use a harmonious colour derived from theories about this colour wheel. The most important  thing to know about the colour wheel is what colours are opposite each other. These opposite  colours contrast each other and are also called complementary colours. Tertiary colours are  made up of three primary colours. Tertiary colours are not represented on the outside  of the colour wheel but what we must be able to do is identify where in the colour wheel  a tertiary colour's hue lies. For example this warm brown here can be placed just between orange,  red and red on the colour wheel. Saturation is how pure the hue is. To understand saturation  we must be able to understand how to desaturate a hue. To desaturate a hue you need to add  a complementary colour. You mustn't think of desaturating a hue as adding grey. Even  though we're greying out the colour we're not adding grey. I cannot stress enough how  important this concept is. The main issue a lot of amateurs have with their colour use is the  greying out of colour, the deadening of the colour. You've probably heard a million times don't use  black but at the same time don't use a grey that you've just used white and black to mix a grey.  Try to be a little bit more creative with the use of colour to create your unsaturated colours.  I've got a quick demonstration of how two complementary colours can work. Often complementary  colours side by side can jar together. They don't really look right together. You've probably heard  the term red and green should never be seen. Often the two colours right side by side can be  off-putting but to separate them somehow can work. We can separate them by the absence of colour which  is a grey, a neutral colour. A grey, a black or a white. If we look at the work of Matisse you can  do some research on the Matisse piece The Snail. Towards the end of Matisse's life,  Henri Matisse, he produced some cut paper collages and on The Snail he uses black and  white combined with colours, saturated colours from all around the colour wheel. What he was  trying to do was separate those colours with the use of black and white. So I'm going to use purple  and it's a blue-purple and I'm going to complement it with a slightly orangey-yellow.  So now I can show you what happens when these two colours mix.  So what's happening here is that the two complementary colours when mixed together  are giving us this grey neutral colour. Using the neutral colour which is mixed from the two  colours involved is very important to keep in mind. So when you have a blue that you want to  calm down a little and desaturate, you want to use a little bit of orange or a colour which is  based on the orange part of the colour wheel like a burnt sienna. So what I've done there is just use  two complementary colours and then when they mix together they create the grey. By surrounding  saturated colours with grey it gives me what is known as a contrast of saturations. If we go back  to the work of Henri Matisse, Matisse was considered as being revolutionary in his colour  use. He was one of the founding artists of the movement of Fauvism. Fauvism deriving from the  word wild beasts and there were wild beasts of their colour use and they used non-literal colour  but the colour was all based on theories and balance. Now they used very saturated colour and  the controlled use of saturated colour is very important. You can't just fire saturated colour  onto a canvas or a design without consideration of what is being read next to. If you've ever  wondered why the saturated colours or really bright colours look great in a black background  or look great in a white background, it's because it's being read with a balance to something that  doesn't have, that has the least saturation. So saturated colours combined with unsaturated  colours gives the saturated colours a little bit of a stage to perform on. Something's only hot  when it's compared to something that's colder and it's the same with colour, it's the same with  painting. And this is what Matisse told us. Matisse was working with colours from all around  the colour wheel and high saturations and as soon as he combined it with grey, blacks and whites he  was able to then stop bombarding the viewer with all this colour information and give a balance,  a balance of saturations. The concept of complementary colours creating grey provides  you with a way of creating those greys to break up your saturated colours. I've got this painting  here that I produced recently and it's all about this theory. This is all about the complementary  colours of blue and orange and those blue and oranges are separated a lot of the time. We don't  see the saturated blues right next to the saturated orange. The most saturated blues  are in this section here, the most saturated oranges are here but there's grey which stands  in between those. So what's quite important sometimes is that we understand that you can't  always put saturated complementary colours right next to each other. If you look at some of the  work of Matisse and others including some influenced artists by Matisse such as Rothko,  it's not a case of creating a vibrancy through putting one complementary colour right next to  another. A lot of the time in Matisse's paintings if you look closely he'll separate those polar  opposite colours using a black, using white, using a grey and it creates a barrier between  the two so that we can read them separately. Thanks for watching the video there's going to  be more parts to the tutorial on colour coming later you can get them by subscribing on Twitter,  Facebook or indeed subscribing to this channel. 