 Management solutions are one of the best friends of ICT professionals if you talk about Microsoft Deployment Toolkit and Windows Deployment Services.  These have some limitations, however, SCCM, which is an abbreviation of System Center Configuration Manager, offers you a lot, where you can manage devices and, in addition to that, users as well.  Hi everyone, this is Jay Singh and welcome to my channel TechNext Solutions and I decided to start a new YouTube video series on SCCM.  So I would like to share my experience with SCCM. I have been working with SCCM for more than 4 years and I have done SCCM deployments and on daily basis I work with SCCM and where we support primarily Windows 10 and user devices.  So we will start this series with fundamentals of SCCM. I know fundamentals are a bit boring but they are very important.  And then we will discuss about how we can implement our SCCM in Test Lab and then we will check out SCCM's functionality and how it can be used.  So throughout this video series I will be referring to Microsoft documentation and where you can actually go and read this documentation in your own time.  So let's just talk about fundamentals of SCCM, what SCCM is.  SCCM is a suite of management solutions. It manages both users and devices as well.  So now let's have a look at why we use Configuration Manager.  So one of the main thing is it minimizes manual tasks and maximizes software investments because you can monitor which software you use a lot.  If some software you use less you can minimize the license.  And on-demand software available for users where users they go online and they browse software center.  And software center we will discuss in the forthcoming videos and from there they can click and install required software.  And compliance setting management with the help of SCCM where we actually check the compliance settings on the configured devices.  And of course asset management like servers, desktops and mobile devices.  So now let's talk about Configuration Manager deployment.  So when we deploy Configuration Manager we deploy it as one or more sites.  So when we deploy as one more sites we talk about hierarchies.  Either it's a one or more it's just a hierarchy.  And when we deploy as sites there are different types of sites we have.  The first one is CAS. Central Administrative Site.  And it can support up to 25 child primary sites.  So now the next one is child primary site.  And something similar stand-alone primary site.  We will look at the difference between child primary site and stand-alone primary site.  And the last one is secondary site.  Anything which comes under child primary site or stand-alone primary site it is called as secondary site.  And secondary site it does not support further child sites.  So CAS which is Central Administrative Site.  It is for large scale deployments and it will manage other sites.  And it requires additional site for managing devices.  And this additional site is child primary site.  And you cannot change actually CAS to a primary site.  Second one is stand-alone primary site.  So it is for small scale deployments and you can manage devices directly from this site.  However CAS requires child primary site to manage devices.  So stand-alone primary site it does not require additional sites.  And as we discussed already that CAS it requires additional site to manage other devices.  And there is always option for expansion to a CAS.  And you can add more child primary sites as well.  Ok so what is the difference between stand-alone primary site and child primary site.  So most of the things are same only stand-alone primary site it comes at top of the hierarchy.  And child primary site it comes under CAS.  And also with stand-alone primary site you can install all the available roles.  However in child primary site some of the roles you cannot install.  Because they are already installed on CAS on Central Administrative Site.  Ok so and the last one is secondary site.  And secondary site it always comes under could be stand-alone primary site or child primary site.  Ok and all clients managed by primary site however secondary site it just helps primary site.  It could be stand-alone or child primary site.  So now let's talk about how many clients can be managed.  So one CAS can manage about 1 million clients.  And child primary site one child primary site can manage maximum 150,000.  And on the other hand stand-alone primary site can manage maximum 175,000.  Whereas secondary site can actually manage maximum 15,000 clients.  Ok for further reference links are given in the description which can be checked.  Site system roles.  So we can actually install roles.  So where we install SCCM this server becomes site system server.  And further we can install roles.  So there are a lot of roles available.  Let's have a look what are these roles.  And we'll have a quick look and in your own time you can read about these roles.  And some of these roles we will be actually using quite often.  And let's have a look on these ones first.  So one of the role can be application catalog website point.  And if you talk about further we have certificate registration point.  And database warehouse service point.  Distribution point.  That's gonna be the main one.  And endpoint protection point.  Enrollment point.  And there are more.  So read in your own time.  And in the forthcoming videos we will talk about all these roles in more detail when we install them.  Also some of the features and roles they are actually removed and depreciated.  So in the documentation if you go on this documentation you can have a look at what other features which are removed and depreciated.  And some of the site servers as well and some of the clients as well.  So licensing is another thing.  With the licensing there is LTSB which is long term servicing branch.  At the moment 1606 is supported.  And customers with active software assurance can use that.  And there is another one called current branch.  So current branch is up to date.  Wherever any feature update or any in console update these updates are delivered for current branch.  And there is another thing is technical preview.  So basically name tells all for testing and pre-release software.  So if you would like to test and you can use technical preview for that.  So a link is given in the description as well.  You can go on to that link and read more about this.  So now let's have a look at hardware requirements which are recommended by Microsoft.  If it's a standalone primary site with a database site role on the same server and CPU is 16 cores it's 96 GB memory.  And 80% of this memory has to be provided for SQL server.  And with standalone primary site server with a remote site database CPU can 8 cores and memory can be 16 GB.  And you can have a look at this table and this is the recommended hardware requirements by Microsoft.  That's all for this video and please give a thumbs up to this video and show your support.  And do not forget to subscribe to my channel if you have not done yet.  See you in the next video. 