 This video is going to show you how to take seven very simple techniques to add incredible  depth to your projects. Hi, I'm Ingrid Blackburn and my goal for you today is that you learn  something, you get inspired, and that you create. So let's dive right in. We're going to start off  with a six by six art canvas board. This is just a regular canvas panel and I'm covering it in  gesso using just a little card to spread that. I'm going to make sure that that's fully dry before  moving on. That's going to act as a primer in between. We're adding some liquid and obviously  some ink refills and spritzing some water down. This is going to help to create that barrier in  between this wet layer. So you can see just randomly spreading around five different colors  actually of ink refills. I'm starting with the lightest shade and working my way up. All the  supplies are listed below in the description below this video and you want to make sure that that is  thoroughly dry before moving on. I'm just going to add some more depth by starting to work with  some deeper colors and a little bit of transition. Just kind of having a little bit of light and dark  in this project and that really helps give the background a little bit more interest. So once  you have it exactly as you want it, and doesn't that look great? The depth is awesome and I love  that I can create that with reinkers. We're going to take some modeling paste and this is by the  Crafters Workshop and this has the consistency of, you know, kind of like cake icing. It's a very  pliable medium. I'm going to use some Skylight reinker, which is one of the darker colors that I have.  I'm using reinkers by Catherine Pooler and I love these blues. They have such pretty shades. I'm using  one from the party line and the rest are from the spa line. I really love the soft muted colors that  she has in her ink line. So I'm going to go ahead and spread those through this stencil by the  Crafters Workshop and this is just going to give me a subtle little background interesting  look. I'm not putting it everywhere, just kind of bits and pieces. I'm going to make sure that that's  completely dry, but it really kind of blends into our background and you can see where it's on the  angle here as I'm drying it, that it really adds some dimension to it as well. Next up we're going  to take some Distress Oxides and I'm going to start off with Vintage Photo. Vintage Photo is,  you know, a real good shade when you're wanting to do some antiquing to, you know, give it that  kind of a feel, a warm feel to your project. I am going to skip ahead here. We're going to use three  shades. We're going to use Walnut as well as Soot Black just on the edges, but it's important to go  with a little bit more depth in color, you know, using multiple shades because that gives you that  real interesting look. I'm also dragging it into the project a little bit with my sponge tool.  For a more in-depth tutorial, something that's a little more real time where you can truly follow  along and get a lot more insight into the mediums and techniques that I'm using, be sure to check  out my Patreon channel. That link is also in the description below. So once we've heat set that  Distress Oxide ink, we're going to move on to the next step. I have some leftover ghost prints  from a monoprinting session, and these are great. I love to save these even though they don't look  like much because they are awesome for edging and backgrounds, and that's what we're going to use  them for. So this is deli paper, and you can see it fits just the width of my piece and goes a little  bit more. I'm going to remove some of that excess white space, that negative space that you don't  need because it doesn't really serve any purpose. It's just extra noise on our project. We're going  to use some Glazing Medium by Liquid Text, and we're going to brush this on with a paintbrush,  and this is going to seal our layers before going to the collaging step. I don't really want any of  those ink refills to move. Those are really, really water reactive, as well as the distress,  even though we've heat set it because it's sitting on top of those ink refills, and we have to kind  of remember that and just be cognizant of it. So it's good to just seal everything with the  Glazing Medium. Now a better way to do this probably would have been to use a gel plate and  put that Glazing Medium down and just press that in because you can see I kind of went a couple  too many times with my brush and removed some of that distress oxide and ink refill. So what I'm  going to do is just kind of add a little bit more, and it's okay even to have that little bit of  white there. It adds that extra little bit of light space. So it actually worked in my project,  but you can also use the method of using a gel plate. Next up, Matte Medium. You can see I have  a couple different Matte Mediums. One was by The Crafter's Workshop, one by Liquid Text.  Love this to do some collaging. This is great. You want to make sure to thoroughly coat your space  where your deli paper is going to rest on because we need to actually have that medium  basically come through. So from the bottom and the top you can see I'm being very generous with  this, and I'm going to actually end up wrapping it around my canvas so that it actually gets  adhered all the way through to the back. I'm going to use my fingers. This is a messy project.  If you don't like to get your fingers dirty, you know, that's fine. Some people don't. Go ahead and  use some gloves, but definitely you want to rub that medium. You want to make sure that none of  that white space is still showing. See how that just becomes part of the canvas? Really important  there. Now you're going to end up peeling kind of the top back and just work that medium over the  edges so that it's very seamless. This is Tacky Wind Dry Gel Medium, and this is a fabulous  medium to do a little bit of foiling without needing to heat set it. So this is by The  Crafter's Workshop. Just using a palette knife to spread this through the stencil, and this is the  Two Hearts stencil by The Crafter's Workshop. Just going to use bits and pieces of it. You know, a lot  of times with stencils I don't use the entire stencil. Sometimes, you know, partial stenciling  actually is better than using the entire image. You know, I just wanted a little bit of added  interest in certain spots on my project. So what we're doing was we're spreading this medium through  and being pretty liberal here, and just going to kind of put it through, and then we're going to go  ahead and heat set that. So you can see we have a lot of depth and interest there. I love those  pieces, and if you don't have deli paper or any leftover monoprints, you can certainly take tissue  paper and a micron pen and create a pattern or stamp on something and get the same result. So  we're adding that foil, and I'm using the reverse side of the foil connected to the tacky part. So  you want the shiny part, the part that you're going to see up top like that. You're going to  burnish it with your fingers and very slowly peel that back. This is a great way of adding foil to  your project with, like I said, without needing any sort of a heating element, and it's great for  mixed media projects. I really love how this turned out. The contrast is really nice, and I love adding  foiled accents to pieces. So now that we've created an interesting background, I still want to add  some little tiny accents. To get started, we're going to use Gelato here, and just kind of wiping  it onto the stencil and then using my finger to work that medium through the actual positive  space of the stencil, and just adding some little tiny details to some areas where I felt  it needed a little bit more and was kind of lacking. We're going to use this medium to then  act kind of as an adhesive for some embossing powder. I'm going to take some WOW! Primary Bark  Embossing Powder and just kind of put that over some of those detailed areas, and then we're going  to heat set that with a heat tool. I love adding embossing. Embossing powder really is a great  accent to a lot of your projects, not just for cards but mixed media projects, really anything  that you do. I encourage you to try some different colors or different textured ones. There's some  great depth that you can get with some interesting embossing powders nowadays. So I took another  leftover monoprint that you see there and cut out some dragonflies. I also cut out the die cut  art happens from a couple of sheets of paper. I embossed the top layer of my dragonflies as well as  the word die. I'm just going to use a little bit of matte medium to adhere these together,  and these are going to act as die cuts which will provide a little bit of interest to the top of my  actual canvas. But before I actually put everything down, I added those two together for a little bit  of height. I thought that was kind of a nice accent to the piece. I'm going to take a pit pen, and a  pit pen is probably one of a mixed media artist's number one tools, I think. There's so much great  depth you can add, and just that little tiny something to a project with a pit pen. It stays  wet for about 30 seconds, and you can use your finger to rub it back and forth and just create  a little bit of grunge effect. You can see me doing it on the actual canvas itself. They come in all  different colors, white, black, and white and black should definitely be in your stash.  Then to adhere my die cut pieces down, again using that multi matte medium, just kind of putting  that down. I want to add that liberally because we have height, we have all different types of  textures and materials and mediums that we've used, so be very liberal with that. It dries crystal  clear. I'm using one by Liquitex. It comes from all different companies, but you definitely want  one that's going to dry crystal clear. They usually come in a gloss format, but I like the matte  version. Because this has a lot of fine pieces, I added some medium to the back in those corners  just to make sure that those had plenty of adhesive to it. I'm going to add something  heavy on top. I'm actually going to use a couple of acrylic blocks to make sure that it adheres  really well to the canvas before placing all those dragonflies down. Now I thought it would  be kind of interesting to have one look like it's kind of in motion or coming onto the piece,  so I wrap that around and adhere that that way. Isn't all that detail amazing? I love when you put  all these little tiny things together. It creates something very artistic. If you want to learn more,  be sure to click that video to the left, and I hope you were definitely inspired. See you there! 