 What is criticality analysis?  Now, if you're unclear, if you're not familiar with this, there are webinars on our website  and Mobius Connect and even YouTube, I believe, although they might be a little bit old now.  The key is to combine three pieces of information, to look at your assets, one after another,  and say, what would happen if the equipment failed?  Lives at risk?  Is downtime at risk, but is it an hour of downtime or a month of downtime?  Could there be harm to the environment?  Could quality be affected?  Could we poison our customers?  What could happen?  The next question is, what is the likelihood of that occurring?  Because we could say that one of the consequences is a fatality, which of course is terrible,  but we might say, well, the likelihood of the failure occurring is very, very, very  rare.  It's just so unlikely to happen in that way.  But we may look at the consequences of failure, look at the likelihood of failure, how likely  is it to begin to fail?  But then the third part, which people don't always look at, is what is the likelihood  of detection?  In other words, I might have a piece of equipment that is unreliable, and I might say, well,  the likelihood of it beginning to fail is reasonably high.  This particular motor or whatever the piece of equipment is, is prone to failure.  However, because we have condition monitoring or because it always makes a lot of noise  well before it fails, we will detect that that's happening, and therefore we do not  suffer the consequences.  Now this is a big topic.  It's one of my favorite topics.  I could talk about it for a long time.  But I guess the important point for now is that if we are able to stand back at some  distance and look at the asset as a whole and just say, now, remember, there are lots  of different ways a piece of equipment could fail.  I mean, take an electric motor.  The rotor bars could break, could crack and fail.  The bearings might fail.  The rotor may be out of balance.  The rotor might rub against the stator.  I mean, there's lots of different ways it can fail, and the consequences of failure  and the likelihood of detection could be quite different.  The likelihood of it failing because of a bearing fault has a certain probability of  occurring.  The probability of the rotor rubbing against the stator might be far less likely.  If I was going to perform failure modes, effects and criticality analysis, I would  look at every possible way the equipment could fail and look at the likelihood of each one  of those failures and the likelihood of detecting each one of those failures, which is terrific,  but that is a very time-consuming process.  And if we want to get something happening more quickly, then we step way back and we  look at the motor as a whole and say, in general terms, what sorts of failures are most likely  to occur?  What ones do I really need to think about?  And what are the consequences of failure and what is the likelihood of detecting that?  And that just lets us say, what sort of risks are we facing?  If we determine that certain assets pose severe risks, then we can look at them in much greater  detail and go through failure mode by failure mode.  So I'm rushing through this a little bit because there's a lot we can discuss.  But if we can start with a basic criticality analysis, it lets us do a lot more.  We can say, well, where should we perform that detailed reliability-centered maintenance  analysis or failure modes effects analysis?  Do I just start with the, do I go through alphabetically every asset or do I start with  the most critical asset and go to the second most critical, the third most critical?  I would argue that's a better approach.  So we do a bit of criticality analysis first, and then we prioritize the RCM or FMEA analysis.  But that same criticality analysis tells us which assets we should monitor with our condition  monitoring program.  We make sure we are monitoring those assets that are most critical to us, particularly  if they're critical because we do not detect the onset of failure.  We can make an asset far less critical if we can detect the failure occurring that is  beginning to occur, and therefore we do not suffer the consequences of failure.  But we can prioritize our maintenance tasks and our improvement projects and all kinds  of things if we have criticality analysis. 