 Welcome to the Law Simplified course on criminal law. Before we move on proper to  elements within the criminal law syllabus itself, it's important to note  the various sections as well as the basic fundamentals. Since this will be  one of the first courses or one of the first subjects that you will be studying  in your LLB program, primarily due to criminal law being taught in many LLB  programs in the first year, it's an important factor to know the  fundamentals, the principles before you move on to understanding homicide,  assault, sexual offenses and other such particular offenses. Having said that, I  believe it's important to outline how exactly this course is structured. First  of all, we'll be going through the introduction to the subject matter  itself, which will be done in this particular lecture. Next, we'll look at  the various elements of an offense, which are the fundamentals for any offense, as  in the Arctus Reus and the mens rea. We'll consider automatism, effects of  prior fault, omissions and their effect on crimes, causation, as I mentioned  earlier, mens rea or the mental or the intent component, defenses which are  applicable, incohate offenses or attempts, as well as parties to a crime. From this  point onwards, we will move on to homicide, common assault, aggravated  assault, sexual offenses, theft, robbery, burglary and fraud. Now that we have an  outline of how this course is structured, let's move on with the introduction.  There are many different ways that you can categorize law. Now as a first-year  student, you're just diving into the subject matter that is your LLB program  and you would be, along with criminal law, studying the law of contracts, public law  as well as common law or the English legal system in some programs. As such, we  can categorize law as ones which are related to criminal law and ones which  aren't. In which case, we can define it as, on the one hand, you have criminal law  and on the other hand, you have civil law. Criminal law deals with the punishment  of the offender. Now the burden of proof in a criminal law case or in relation to  crimes is on the prosecution, namely being the crown or Rex R, as you'll come  to notice when you do case law. In relation to the burden of proof itself,  it has to be beyond reasonable doubt. Contrarily, in civil law, we see that the  legal system is attuned to compensate the loss of the claimant. There is no  punishment involved. It's an attempt to put people or put the parties in a  position where they were before a contract was entered into or before  certain actions or circumstances prevailed. Conversely, once again, the  burden of proof is on a balance of probabilities. Now from this very  distinction itself, you should understand that the criteria afforded  for claimant or afforded for the defendant in a criminal law case is  quite strict and quite stringent. The whole concept of criminal law itself is  the theory of deterrence. It's a mechanism by which punishment is dealt  not only so that the party who has been aggrieved has some form of redress but  also as a mechanism so that crime will not happen in the future. Along with this  distinction, there are a few key facts that is important to understand before  moving on. Firstly, it's the law that outlines what a crime is and is not. Now  being the UK, the common law jurisdiction stipulates that it's by precedent and by  custom and norm itself that certain crimes have come to become what they are  as well as the punishment. So in that light, what we what we must realize is  that it's not a particular individual or a group that defines what a particular  crime is but the law itself. Case law as well as now after certain enactments  statute as well. And a fundamental premise of criminal law is that a person  is presumed innocent until he is proven guilty. Finally, a person can be tried for  a civil and a criminal wrong simultaneously. Now when you come to the  second and the third years, the subject of thought or the law of thought defines  certain tortious liabilities that are imposed on individuals. More often than  not, these individuals have also been convicted or have been tried or being  tried for a particular criminal offense as well. So the tortious liability is the  civil aspect of certain crimes or criminal activities that a person had  been involved in. But we won't go into detail here because this is primarily on  criminal law in your first year. Now I mentioned earlier that a crime is  actually defined or outlined by way of the law itself. Now how is this possible  and who exactly defines this? For instance, most heinous and most  fundamental crimes themselves have been defined by common law. For example, murder,  manslaughter, assault. But what we see now is that certain statutes have come into  play that have defined certain other crimes as well. For example, theft, robbery  and rape. For example, rape has been defined in the Sexual Offenses Act of  2003. That was a very basic introduction into what criminal law is, how it can be  distinctly differentiated from civil law, where the burden of proof lies, certain  key facts that outline what a crime is and how it is defined and where certain  crimes can be found either in common law or statute. Next, we will look at the  various elements of an offense and how exactly an offense can be committed.  Hi, my name is Shaben Bhandar Nayak. Thanks a lot for watching this video on  YouTube. For the complete course, make sure you click the link on the left. Also  for an exclusive discount to YouTube viewers, enter the coupon code YOUTUBE  at the course page. All the very best with your studies and good luck with  your exams. See you in the next lesson. 