 Statistics is all about data. In fact data are the life and blood of statistics.  I would argue that without data in fact there is no statistics. When it comes to  data it comes in all shapes and sizes and if you have been paying attention to  what is happening and what has been happening in the world as of late  especially around since 2010 and 11 you would notice that the real buzz is  around big data and corporations, governments, individuals they all want to  do something with big data and they don't want to be seen without big data.  In fact a colleague and I wrote a paper in the International Journal of  Information Management and we critically looked at this this concept of big data  and we called it beyond the hype because we realized that it was more hype to big  data than what was in fact possible with it. In fact I would argue that most  companies and individuals would have what we called small data something that  fits on your hard drive or the hard drive of your computer or something that  you can work with with a small server and if you notice a lot of data that we  work with in real life not just at universities and schools is small to  medium-sized data and thinking of data you have to realize how it's collected  and how it's generated. A large number of data sets are collected through surveys  you have been a recipient of such unsolicited phone calls or people  stopping you on the street asking you can you spare five minutes for a survey.  There are cross-sectional data in fact what happens is that from a random  sample of individuals representing some population we conduct a survey and ask  them a question at a point in time and in fact we get a cross-section of  opinions at that particular time. Another way of collecting data is to ask  the same question to the same people repeatedly over a longer period such as  tracking children from the age of say five to their adolescence and all  the way to their adulthood. So over a 30-year period you test their IQ scores,  their behavioral attitudes, their attitudes towards life, the choices  they made for education and careers and family and that kind of data would be  longitudinal or panel data. Another kind of data that you are most likely to be  familiar with is called time series data. If you look at housing prices a graph of  housing prices going up and down or unemployment rate fluctuating over time  these are called time series data. You're collecting this information about  the same entity over time. What is called big data is essentially the  web-based data or data that is being continuously generated by smartphones  or information technology enabled devices that keep generating this  data automatically and the size of that data is humongous and that's why  it's called big data. The data set once it's in a tabular format and that  would be the focus of this statistics 101, that data has variables and  those variables would have certain types and we'll discuss them later. Since  business analytics and social sciences rely to a great deal on survey data let  us discuss it briefly. If you have been paying attention to the news or to  television you know that in the United States we had the  presidential elections and what happened is that for a very sustained period of  time the polls that is the surveys done of eligible voters suggested that one  candidate would win over the other. The odds of one candidate was significantly  higher as per the survey data but then it turned out at the night of election  election night people realized that evening that the polls were horribly  wrong. So survey data is very useful but I would start with the caveat that the  quality of data determines the quality of analysis and while I'm mentioning  these polls went wrong I would like to mention Warren Mitovsky who is one of  the pioneers of exit polling data and as we go along I hope that we get a  chance to revisit some of his work but in the end of the day you have many  companies individuals who collect data even the government collects data  through polls and the United States Census Bureau not only does census which  essentially is is a survey of all individuals or supposed to be a survey  of all individuals in the US and same is the case with the Census Bureau's or  agencies in Europe and in other parts then there are professional  organizations that do service for businesses and governments Gallup is one  such agency and then there are think tanks or fact tanks such as the Pew  Research Center that collect data on matters of that are of importance  sociologically socially or politically or economically. One good thing about Pew  Research Center is that it makes its data available to all. In this particular  course we will routinely use a data set from University of Texas provided by  Professor Daniel Hammermesh. Professor Hammermesh is an author and a celebrated  economist who have been looking over the years as to how your one's appearances  or looks impact their economic or other outcomes. His book Beauty Pays is an  interesting read and I highly recommend it. The data set looks as follows we have  beauty which is the rating of the instructors physical appearance by a  panel of six students and then teaching evaluation which is the lowest could be  one and highest could be five. Notice that beauty and evaluation are continuous  variables or real numbers so evaluation could be 4.1 4.2 they're not integers  whereas minority status is sort of a factor variable or a categorical  variable it's either 1 or 0 if a person is a is a non-caucasian or visible  minority 1 0 otherwise then gender would also be a categorical variable or a  dichotomous that could take only one or the other value so gender, native, tenure  are all dichotomous variables. So we will discuss these types as we go along and  as we work with data but understanding the type of variable and the kind of  analysis one can perform based on the type of variable is very important to  get right from the word go. 