 Carbohydrates are energy, but how many carbs do you need and what are the best sources  of energy for performance?  Watch now for these answers and more.  Hi, I'm sports dietitian Tara Collingwood.  Carbohydrates are your body's preferred source of energy.  Our body needs carbs all day long, especially if you exercise on a regular basis.  Carbs are an integral part of an athletic diet and should be consumed before and after  exercise.  Start within an hour of getting up with some carbs in a smoothie or maybe some cereal.  Make sure that you have those carbs with every meal and even at snack time.  Choose carb-containing foods like nutrient-dense whole grain bread, cereal, tortillas, rice,  pasta, potatoes, vegetables, dairy, and of course, fruit.  Fruit is a great option for a pre-workout snack, whether it's fresh, canned, dried,  like raisins or dates.  When you're doing moderate to intense exercise lasting an hour or longer, you may need small  amounts of carbs throughout your workout, such as a few gulps of a sports drink or a  few bites of fruit every 15 to 20 minutes during that exercise.  Post-workout eating is essential.  Skipping that post-workout snack on a regular basis could actually impact your fitness goals.  So aim for refueling within about 15 to 60 minutes after exercise.  Building these healthy habits include choosing foods that have both carbs and protein, like  yogurt with fruit and granola, cheese and whole grain crackers, or an apple with some  nut butter.  My favorite way to refuel after exercise is drinking low-fat chocolate milk because it  has that perfect mix of protein and carbs that helps to refuel those exhausted muscles,  but also helps your body return to peak potential.  The number of carbs you eat per day will depend on your resting metabolism and how many calories  you're burning throughout the day.  As a general rule, try to fill half your plate with fruits and veggies, about a quarter grains,  and a quarter with protein.  And remember to include those three servings of dairy each day as part of your meals and  snacks.  For more sports nutrition tips, visit FloridaMilk.com. 