 My name is Jennifer Nagel. I teach philosophy at the University of Toronto, and today I  want to talk to you about the Gettier Problem. This problem gets its name from the philosopher  Edmund Gettier, who published a very short and famous paper on it in 1963. In his paper,  Gettier sets out to attack the dominant theories of knowledge of his day, which were committed  to a three-part analysis or definition of knowledge. According to this analysis, a person  or subject, who's conventionally called S, knows a proposition, let's call it P, if and  only if the following three conditions all hold. P is true, S believes that P, and S  is justified in believing that P. This three-part recipe is known as the JTB, or Justified True  Belief, analysis of knowledge. The first two conditions are pretty uncontroversial. Knowledge  only latches onto truths, and you need full confidence or belief to know. If you just  have a hunch, that's not enough. We need the third condition because knowledge demands  more than true belief. You may remember pessimistic Pierre from our first video in this series,  who wakes up in a windowless room every day believing that it is raining outside. Even  on a day when this pessimistic belief is true, it doesn't seem right to say that he knows  that it is raining. He lacks justification. The nature of justification is controversial.  Different JTB theorists had different ideas about it. But let's say it has something to  do with having good reasons for your belief. If we don't want the JTB analysis to be a  circular definition, we have to say that being justified isn't the same thing as knowing.  Gettiger suggests one possible difference. He observes that you could, in some sense,  be justified in believing something that turns out to be false, for example, if you had lots  of misleading evidence that made it look like the right thing to believe. If your justified  belief turns out to be true, then the JTB theorist has to say that you have knowledge.  You might wonder whether that's right, or more generally, what needs to be added to  true belief to get knowledge. That's the Gettiger problem. Gettiger himself didn't think the  JTB analysis was correct, and he came up with some counterexamples to it, where someone  has a true and justified belief, but seems not to know.  Here's his first counterexample. Smith and Jones are rival job applicants. Gettiger doesn't  say how, but they meet each other, perhaps in a waiting room after their job interviews  waiting to hear who got the job. As they're maybe starting to get bored, Jones counts  out loud how many coins he has in his pocket. Exactly ten, they discover.  Jones puts the ten coins back in his pocket as the president of the company comes into  the room. The president congratulates Jones, announcing that he's a great fit for the position.  As Smith leaves the room, disappointed, here's something that he believes. Jones, who has  ten coins in his pocket, will get the job. From this, Smith concludes that the man who  will get the job has ten coins in his pocket. And that's our key proposition, P.  Right now, it might seem that Smith even knows that P, knows that the man who will get the  job has ten coins in his pocket. But there's a twist. For some reason, at the last minute,  the company ends up hiring Smith, not Jones. And unbeknownst to Smith, he happens to have  ten coins in his pocket as well. So when Smith believes that the man who will get the job  has ten coins in his pocket, what he believes is true, because Smith will get the job and  Smith has ten coins in his pocket. It's also justified, because Smith has good reasons  for thinking that Jones will get the job and that Jones has ten coins in his pocket. But  does Smith actually know that the man who will get the job has ten coins in his pocket?  It seems not. Smith is wrong about who will get the job and doesn't know how many coins  are in his own pocket. If Smith has a justified, true belief in our key proposition, but doesn't  know it, then the JTB analysis is wrong.  Philosophers now use the label Gettier case for any story that illustrates the possibility  of justified true belief without knowledge. It turns out that there are many such cases,  often simpler than Gettier's original. Suppose that Smith wonders what time it is and glances  at the clock on the wall, which clearly shows the time as three o'clock. Looking at the  clock is a perfectly reasonable way of telling time, so Smith has a justified belief. What  he doesn't know is that this clock is broken and its hands haven't moved in days. But,  by chance, it is exactly three o'clock right now. Does Smith actually know the time as  he looks at the broken clock?  Back in 1948, Bertrand Russell just used this case to illustrate the possibility of true  belief without knowledge. But looking back on it now, we can say something stronger.  It's a case of justified true belief without knowledge. It's a Gettier case.  In fact, there are some even older Gettier cases in the history of philosophy. The 8th  century Indian philosopher, Dharamathura, tells a story in which a fire has just been  lit to roast some meat. The fire hasn't yet produced any smoke, but the meat has attracted  a swarm of insects. A distant observer looks at the cloud of insects, mistakes it for smoke,  and judges that a fire is burning at that spot. Dharamathura suggests that this distant  observer doesn't know that there is a fire burning.  Looking back on this story, we can use it as a counterexample to the JTB analysis of  knowledge. If it doesn't work to analyze knowledge as justified true belief, what does  work? You may have noticed that the Gettier cases we've talked about so far have some  features in common, and you might think that we could take account of those features, and  add a simple patch to the JTB analysis to fix it up.  But, as we'll see in the next two videos in this series, the problem of deciding what  to add to true belief to get knowledge turns out to be surprisingly difficult. 