 Hello there everybody and welcome to the Mr. Sin channel. In this video we're  going to be going over qualitative and quantitative research. We're going to be  talking about what both of these types of research are, how they're different,  and also how they're similar.  If this is your first time watching Mr. Sin video, welcome. Hopefully you find  value in this video. If you do, please consider liking the video and  subscribing. Also make sure you take notes throughout the video. You can use  your own notes or you can use mine. I have guided notes I've created that go  along with all my videos. You can find them in the description below. But this  video is about qualitative and quantitative research. Now they're both  pretty similar yet very different and it's important to understand the  differences between them. Qualitative research is going to be focusing on  things that are up for discussion and for debate. It's going to be describing a  lot of things. It will use surveys and observations and interviews along with  also looking at artifacts of an area. It'll look at language. It's going to  look at religion and ethnicity. It's going to look at these things from a  manner that is up for discussion. Where quantitative is going to be trying to  definitively prove something. If a geographer for example is looking at an  area, it's going to look at the economic data, the political description. It's  going to look at population breakdowns through age and gender or even looking  also at things that are just concrete. These are things that are facts. You  can't dispute them. They're not up for debate. When it comes actually to the  research part, qualitative is going to be asking more questions that deal with  what and how. They're going to be asking for more open-ended questions. For  example, how do people living in inner city view their country? Or how do AP  students celebrate finishing the AP Human Geography test? These questions  aren't necessarily going to have a hypothesis because we're not trying to  predict anything here. We're trying to gauge and understand better the society  around us. Quantitative on the other hand is looking at research that is going to  be looking at variables and it's trying to either prove a hypothesis or possibly  even disprove it. Here questions are going to be asked a little bit  differently. Questions are going to be focused around what, how, and does. So for  example, how much, how often, what is the relationship between the two, what is the  percentage? An example question could even be something as simple as what is  the religious breakdown of the United States? Or how often do farmers go to the  market to sell produce if the road is paved or if it's unpaved? Or does public  transportation actually solve transportation issues within a city?  These are all things that would look at statistic and numbers to be able to  answer these questions. Where qualitative is more of an exploratory form of  research and it's not necessarily defining and trying to prove or disprove  a hypothesis. When it comes to collecting data, qualitative is normally going to use  one source to collect data from. Maybe it's newspapers, journals, it might be  observations or interviews or even audio and video materials. Now with qualitative  they can change things up throughout the study if I notice they're not getting  enough responses from one area. Quantitative on the other hand is just  using numbers. They're looking for things to prove something right or wrong. So  they're going to be looking for more statistics and things that are concrete.  Lastly, when it comes to analysis and also the final report, qualitative is  going to be set into themes. See researchers are going to take all the  observations, all the information they collected and try to break it down into  different themes. This is very time-consuming and the final report will  have a lot of writing in it. It's going to have a lot of quotes and different  things that they observed and it will be up for discussion. The participants will  be very involved in it. Where quantitative on the other hand is not  going to have that many words. It's going to be taking in the analysis portion all  the different data points that they collected. Then they're going to break it  down to see if there's any statistical significance behind any of the  information they gathered. Then they will have a final conclusion that will either  back up the hypothesis or go against it. The quantitative report is going to be a  lot more rigid. It's not up for discussion or debate. It's just showing  the findings of what they found. There's less interpretation there. And that's it!  This video was a really quick overview of qualitative and quantitative research,  but hopefully it helped you understand all the basics about these two different  forms. Let me know in the comments below which one you think is more impactful  or when you think one form of research should be used over another because  they both have pros and cons to being used. Hopefully you enjoyed the video. I'm  Mr. Sin. Don't forget to subscribe and check out some of the other videos on  the channel. And until next time, I'll see you online! 