 Hey guys, so here we go. I'm going to try to give you a little preview of the FRQ  and how we should approach it. I'm using the 2018 AP Psychology FRQ and I'm just  going to give us a bit of a intro to it. We're going to answer the question on  here together and then we'll use this as a springboard to more practice in the  future. So the first kind of thing that I like to do is start with this little  mnemonic device, TDAS. Okay, so the T stands for term and this is a pretty  simple one. We just write the term and underline it. This just makes it easier  for the person who's grading it to know what you're talking about so they can  give you a point for it. It also allows you just to keep organized in case you  accidentally skip one or that you, you know, might lose your spot. You'll know,  okay, this is what I've already done. So we write the term and underline it. So for  instance, over here if you look at Part B, I'll go over the first part's a little  bit more tricky, but Part B it says deindividuation. I would write  deindividuation, underline deindividuation, and then go from there.  Okay, the second thing that we should do after we've written the term and  underlined it is define the term as best we can. Now if you just define the  term on the FRQs, you're not going to get full credit most of the time. So, but  if we do define the term and we do the next step, which is apply, most often  we're going to get the term correct. And so we always want to define the term  kind of just to help us get what we know down on paper and to help give us some  direction and maybe fill in any holes that we might have missed on the  application part. The definition alone, again, does not suffice to earn you  credit, but it's an important part, I believe, to kind of just help us along.  The next part, the A, is the actually the most important and that's apply. Term,  define, apply. So this is where we're going to apply the term. So in our case  where I just underlined the de-individuation, we're going to apply  de-individuation, we're going to apply it to the scenario. So in part B, here's the  scenario. Okay, so we're going to define de-individuation and then we're going to  apply it to this survey of risky behavior by high school students. So  we're going to say something like high school students might have exhibited  de-individuation because and then apply the term to that. And then the S, if I'm  spelling this right, synonyms. Is that right? I'm sorry if it's wrong. I'm going  to have to re-record this whole thing if that's wrong. Synonyms. I hope so. We want  to use synonyms as much as possible. The key here is don't use the  term in your definition and application, or at least in your definition. So you're  not going to say de-individuation is when people feel de-individualized or  something like that. Use a synonym and that lets the grader know that you  understand what the term is because you're able to give a similar term that  means a similar thing. Okay, so this is kind of the outline. This is the general  pattern that we use. Term, define, apply, and then synonyms. So TDAS with synonyms.  TDAS. And if we follow this, we're going to get, we're going to do well. Second  thing to remember. If you're looking through this and you're like, oh crud, I don't  remember some of these terms. I don't know what some of it is. Here's the good  news. The good news is neither do most of the other students who are taking this  exam. They also don't remember some of the terms. They might not remember the  same ones as you. They might remember different ones. Their teacher might have  a number of different things. And so especially important for you to realize  is that don't get caught up on not knowing something. Spend your time  focusing on what you do know because what you do know is we're going to get a  point. There's no half points. There's no partial credit. It's either you get a  full point on it or you get zero. And so don't worry about the stuff you don't  know. Focus on what you do know. In fact, the average score for the FRQs is  anywhere in the 2 to 3 out of 7 range. So here we have 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 points  possible on this question. So there's 7 points possible. I don't remember the...  you can look it up on the AP Central website, but I'm guessing it's like 2.5  or 2.6 or 2.7 out of 7 that was the average score on this. And so that  should be reassuring to you that you don't have to get everything correct in  order to do really well on this exam. You just need to do really well on the  ones that you do know and you're going to pass with flying colors.  All right, so let's read through this and I'm going to erase this. So if you don't  have it written down, write it down. But we're going to read through the scenario over  here and then we're going to start answering it over here together, okay? So  part A. Some of the survey... okay, number two. A survey was conducted to  determine the state of physical and psychological health of high school  students. And then we have three parts to this. So here's part A. We just  answered them in the order that they come to help keep us organized. Part A.  Some of the survey questions related to student stress levels and student  absences due to illness. The data on these variables are displayed below. So  on the y-axis we have number of absences due to illness and on the x-axis we have  the stress level. If you guys remember back to correlations, right, what do we  have here? This is called a scatterplot. Remember that? We have a scatterplot, a  bunch of different data points. So this is like student A, student B, student C, student D,  and they're all here. And then this line in the middle is called the line of best  fit. Neither of those you really need to know for your answers to get  full credit, but that's just pointing out what we see here. And you'll also  remember when we talk about correlations, we had positive and negative. So in this  case, before I go any further, before I even read any further, I'm going to know  that, hey look, number of absences, as the number of absences goes up, right, as we  move this way, the amount of stress also increases, right? So stress is also going  up. As we get the number of absences go up, the stress is also going up. And so we  have two variables that go in the same direction. We call that a positive  correlation, right? So we know this is a positive correlation, right? Before I've  even read any of the rest of the things, I'm just writing down information that I  know, okay? So let's move on. What is the most appropriate conclusion that can be  drawn based on the figure above? Well, I think we just did that. When you figure  out whether something's positive or negative, and a correlation, that's  essentially a very important point of the data that we're seeing here. So that's  something to keep in mind. So let's look at the second one. Explain how the data  depicted in the graph are consistent with the exhaustion stage, excuse me, of  the general adaptation syndrome. And then finally, a researcher wants to conduct  another study using the same variables, but wants to set it up in an experiment.  Explain one reason that an institutional review board might not approve this new  study. Okay, so we got an IRB here, the institutional review board for this one.  We've got the exhaustion stage of general adaptation syndrome over here that we  need to know about, and most appropriate conclusions, okay? So I'm going to get  off the pen, I'm going to start typing now what we have going. So if you  remember back, we started out with TDA, okay? So in the AP Psychology FRQ, we  don't need an introduction, we don't need anything fancy, we just jump directly  into what's going on. So you could say, this one doesn't really have a term,  right? We talked about TDA, term, define, apply. There's not really a term, but  the most, that's weird. Oh, you know what? I'm going to pause this, because the  little instrument that I use to write with, let me see actually if I can take  that. Well, let me press spacebar, there we go. The most appropriate conclusion  would be, and so I'm just, for the sake of keeping things consistent, I might  underline the most appropriate conclusion. So let's get this off of bold.  The most appropriate conclusion would be, and what do we say here, okay? Most  appropriate conclusion is, when I'm looking at that data, I'm saying, hey, as  the number of absences go up due to illness, the stress goes up, would be that  there is a positive correlation between the number of absences due to illness and  the stress level of the student, okay? And quite honestly, that's all you need.  That's a full point right there. I have, there's no definition again in this, but  I am applying it. So this, I started out with TDA, and then the very first one, we  don't use that really, because there's not really a term. We're interpreting a  graph, but interpreting a graph seems to be more and more popular on the FRQs for  psychology. So we need to be able to interpret graphs. All right, so the most  appropriate conclusion would be that there is a positive correlation between  the number of absences due to illness and the stress level of the student. If  you see anything else, you can add that there, but I'm just going to stop with  that. We don't need to add fluff. You're not going to get bonus points if you  in three paragraphs that. Once you answer it, you're done. And so I'm going to move  on to the next one. The next bullet point would be explain how the data depicted  in the graph are consistent with the exhaustion stage of the General Adaptation  Syndrome. So if you remember, we have to figure out what the General Adaptation  Syndrome is, and then we have to remember what the exhaustion stage is. So General  Adaptation Syndrome was that stage where we have our baseline of what our normal  sort of homeostasis level of our body is. When we have a high stress situation, it  could be either acute or chronic. Acute really means it's intense, it's short.  It's for a short period of time, like you're attacked by a bear. That would be  acute. Chronic would be, that would be acute stress right there. Chronic would  be you are in your last semester of college or high school, you have a job, you  have to take care of some family members, and you have a lot of stress. There's  nothing really just sucking it to you all at once, but it's really just expanded.  So that's what chronic is. We have chronic, like in medicine, we have chronic  pain or acute pain. Chronic pain might be your back's just always aching. Acute  pain would be you just broke your arm and it's hurt all of a sudden. So when we  have a high stress situation, whether it's acute or chronic, initially you have  this, it drops down a little bit and your homeostasis in your body's resistance  drops down for a short bit while it kind of gets its bearings. And then what  happens is, is it shoots up, right? It shoots up to resistance level. That's  what the second stage is called resistance. And so it's resistance and  everything's higher. Your testosterone or your adrenaline's higher, your heart  rate's higher, everything. Your defense mechanisms are all higher. That stays  like that until the stress is over or until you run out of, you just can't  carry it on any longer. And then what happens is it drops off the cliff. It  drops off the cliff. I don't know if you saw my hands on that. I can't see  myself. But it drops off the cliff and then you're, when you finish, you're  lower than when you started. This is why a lot of times, and I've mentioned this  in class before, when you go on vacation, a lot of times people get sick, right,  when they go on vacation because normally leading up to a vacation, it  might be a little bit more stressful because you're trying to prepare  everything to go on a vacation, trying to make everything's good at work.  Or if you're a student, usually before you go on vacation, you have finals,  which are stressful. And so we might be facing this general adaptation  syndrome. So anyhow, exhaustion phase is that third stage. So when you're  exhausted, your body's defenses go down. Okay. So all of that to say the  exhaustion stage, and so again, I'm going to underline that term,  comma, which is the final stage of the general adaptation syndrome. I'm just  going to abbreviate it for now. Comma, and I'm going to define it, says that  your body's defenses are reduced, gee whiz, reduced when you can no longer  maintain resistance or the stress or leaves. Okay. So there's my definition.  So term, define, apply. In the data above, comma, students are ill more as,  I'm sorry, students are stressed more as their illness  takes more days away from class, right? And so you guys have all experienced this,  you're away from school, and then what happens? And your homework starts piling  up, you miss lectures, you miss activities, you miss labs, and everything gets more  stressful because you have to make up all that work as well as keep up with what's  ahead of you. So you get more stressed. So the more days that you're out, the  higher your stress level is going to be because you know, oh crap, I have two labs  now I've got to make up. I have to make up that test and that quiz for this class  and all this, and everything starts becoming more stressful. Okay. And that's  really all you're going to need for that. So we have our term here, we defined it,  and then we applied it to the situation. In this situation, we're talking about  the data. All right. And then we move on. A researcher wants to conduct another  study using the same variables, but he wants to make an experiment, explain how  the IRB might not approve this. So remember, whenever you do a research  experiment, you have to have it approved by the IRB or the Institutional Review  Board, which is basically an ethical gatekeeper for any research at an  educational institution. So ethics is the big thing here. So we're asking  ourselves, what might be ethically unappealing to doing this in an  experiment? Well, I would look right here, the stress level right there. Is it  ethical to make students more stressed? Right? Because prolonged periods of  stress can lead to bad things down the line. So I would say that the  IRB, the IRB, I might just, again, this is another one where it's not really a  term, but the IRB might not approve this study because it may be unethical to  induce higher levels of stress than necessary to students. And then I could  probably end it there, but I might just add it. I'm like, oh, is that enough? I  might add one more sentence of why that's unethical. This may create long  term, this may create long term problems down the line. And that would be it. So  again, I term, I kind of defined what unethical is about it, and then I  applied it. So those would be the first three. And then we're just going to go  down and continue on with the rest. I think I might stop there because this  video is already longer than I really wanted it to be. Part B, some of the  survey questions related to risk behavior. The results indicate that 90%  of high school students' risky behaviors were influenced by social factors.  Explain how each of the following may contribute to an increase in risky  behavior. So again, just to start this one out, I would put de-individuation,  individuation, and then again, underline it. There's my term. Is when a person  loses a sense of self or personal responsibility due to being in a large group.  So there's my definition, which might not be the dictionary definition, but it's  going to be close enough. Okay, so term, define, and then apply it. What am I  going to apply it to? I'm going to apply it to this data that they're showing.  The results indicate that 90% of high school students' risky behavior were  influenced by social factors. Students may experience de-individuation when  they are in large groups such as parties. If I just stopped it there, I probably  would not get the point for this because I kind of just explained again that they're  in a large group, but that doesn't tell me why. They're experiencing risky  behaviors. They might do stupid, in quotation marks, things when they are with  a lot of other people and cause themselves harm. Okay, so again, I applied this to  the risky behavior social influences, okay, or social factors. And then normative  social influence, do the same thing. Normal social influence is, again, just  jump right in. Underline normal social influence. Talk about what normative is  when you are influenced to not stick out so that you don't stick out like a sore  thumb. We had normative social influence and informative social influence, I  believe was the other one. And we want to fit in with that one. That was the  Ash conformity. That's conformity stuff. Ash conformity experiment. That was the  I don't want to, I'm going to choose the wrong answer because everybody else is  picking the right answer. And we just move on from there. And so again, it's  pretty simple. Just follow the formula. Term, define, apply. Make sure you're  paying a special attention to this. The graphs are, like I said, becoming  increasingly popular. So go online. On Google, type in practice interpreting  graphs and practice, practice, practice that. Practice identifying independent  and dependent variables. This one didn't have that, but that's always on there.  Independent and dependent variables. Practice, or remind yourself what the  y-axis means, what the x-axis means. And you can go from there. All right, I  believe that'll be it for now. I'll come back with some more practice in the  future, but here's a good first start. Thank you. 