 Whoa. Hey YouTube, this is Fence Kid coming at you. Dude. Well, this is going to be this  year's garden. First thing that needs to take place is we need to get this place cleaned  up. See those weeds? Yeah, I know, that's all you see. Looks hatin' it. We gotta get  rid of those. Get down to some ground and get our crops in. So how do you do it? I mean,  how do you clean something like that, right? I mean, how do you clear that land? Well,  the only way I know how to do it is, you know, just hop right on in and grab you some, right?  And just start rippin'. Give it a good shake, get the dirt off, no big deal. Right? Try  to get as many of the roots as you can. Right? Boom. We're going to do the whole garden.  You gotta start somewhere, brother. The sooner you get weed in, the sooner you can get the  crops in. That's just how it works. Oh, look at those snails, dude. I think I'm going to  have to be going to battle with those bad boys. Not good. We got a few tricks. You know,  keep them off. It's going to take a long time. It's Labor Day weekend this weekend. I know I'm  running late. And so with this time I got off this weekend, I gotta get this done. One step  at a time. And right now we're weeding. What's up? What are you up to, tripper? Bomb-ass sprinkler  line right there. Is that sweet or what? Bam, right out here in the garden, dude. I think I'll  just cap that with an on and off, small hose to it, feed everything right from here. Sweet!  Oh yeah, oh yeah. I don't know if I'm going to keep that or what. That railroad tie there,  I don't know if that's staying or going in. All right, guys, you can see we've got a nice  chunk taken out. It's probably 60% out there taken care of. We're down to it. This is just  heaped up pulled weeds. Man, look at all those weeds. Dude, we're doing awesome. We've probably  got another, I mean, that's four hours right there. I figure another three hours for that  chunk right there. All right, this is Fence Kid. I'm going to come right back at you. Hang on.  Well, let's get this stuff out of the way.  Gotta be...  Whoa.  Hot news.  Well alright, that's a little bit more like it.  I knew there was some ground underneath all those weeds.  So let's start putting in our fences now to hold these crops up.  Alright now we're getting somewhere.  We've got our tomato fences in and all we've done there is just pound a couple poles into  the ground, use this chicken wire, and this is what's going to hold our tomatoes up off  the ground.  So you know, I've got to dig holes for each plant this year.  Do you see all that pea gravel down there?  I don't want to till that in and I don't have time to remove it this year.  So I'm just going to treat the whole place like I'm growing on lame ground.  You have lame ground at your place, you don't have to dial the whole thing out.  Just dig a hole.  Bam, we're going to fill those holes with some premium, and what do I mean when I talk  high premium soil in your holes?  Let's see what we've got.  We've got a few bags of your basic, you've got your cow manure, you've got some peat  moss, you've got some potting mix, you've got some organic garden soil and some flower  stuff, you know a mix.  But this stuff boy I tell you what, if you could smell that, my goodness sakes I love  that.  That's the richest smell you'll ever smell in your life.  But grow in a really high quality soil if you're just digging holes and you'll produce  hell of fruit.  Lazy dog.  You know what, before I go putting these in, before I put those in I'm going to beef that  fence up.  I'm going to put in a couple supports.  So all I use is just these poles.  Right there looks good to me.  Hurry up.  Good.  What is that?  Well I made that but you can get those at Home Depot, Lowe's, shoot you can get them  all over the place and they're made just for exactly what we're doing, just pounding poles  into the dirt.  Alright, we'll wire that up and fill these holes right here with the premium topsoil,  plop in our tomatoes, and as those tomatoes grow we'll just basically grow them wherever  we want through these fences.  Looking a lot different than it did in the beginning right?  Remember that big old patch of weeds dude?  You remember it?  Yeah that's looking good.  I mean wait until everything gets established dude, it's going to be prime.  This is one area you don't want to cut corners on, is your grow, your soil.  Dig holes where you want to grow and fill it up with the premium and rock and roll.  Those are ready to go in, I mean you know, anywhere you see it.  I'll have tomatoes up on the fences, two rows of tomatoes, a row of peppers right through  there.  I'm going to put an eggplant right there.  Over here in this corner, this will be our leafy green section, spinach and swiss chard  right there.  We'll put an eggplant on each side just to look at, they're beautiful.  A couple more peppers over here, another eggplant back there.  And that, oh and right in here, that big open space right out in front right here is going  to be a big cucumber patch right here.  Don't have cucumbers on me today but we'll get in everything but the cucumbers, water  in well and you know, mother nature takes over, the magic begins.  Okay what can I tell you dude, it looks so hot out here today that before I go putting  these crops in I had to give them some kind of shade so I whipped up a little, rigged  up something there just to keep the major sun off these baby little plants I've got.  See, that's a lot better, I mean little plants like this dude, I mean as hot as it is today  that probably wouldn't make it through the day, right?  So anyway, now where were we?  Put it up next to that fence, I want to get in there just right.  The most common problem new gardeners make is over watering so it's real important that  your grow medium have excellent drainage.  Two reasons, obviously to bring in the nutrients over the roots and it also pulls in fresh  air over those roots.  You've got to be able to get air to your roots for those plants to really thrive.  Now let's check it out, see how we're looking.  Let's see how this stuff holds up.  Yeah.  Whoa.  Oh yeah.  Dude.  Alright guys, well that's a weekend's work right there, got it in.  Get your plants in, keep the sun off them if you can, listen to them real close the  first couple of weeks and they should hook you up.  This is Fence Kid coming at you and let me tell you how glad I am I'm done with that.  Geez. 