 Hey Econ students, this is Jacob Clifford.  If you're enrolled in an AP  or a college introductory macroeconomics class,  this is probably the most important video  that you're ever gonna watch.  I'm gonna cover every single graph that you need to know  and explain how they interact with each other.  The first graph that you learn in any economics class  is the production possibilities curve or frontier.  It's super easy, it shows you an economy  that can produce either consumer goods or capital goods,  and this line represents the total amount of goods  we can produce using all of our resources.  So any point outside the curve is impossible.  We can't produce it because we don't have enough resources,  and any point on the curve is efficient  because we're using all of our resources to the max.  Any point inside the curve is inefficient.  We could be producing more  and we're not utilizing our resources,  and that shows the concept of unemployment.  And in unit two, you expand on this,  you learn there's actually three types of unemployment.  There's frictional, structural, and cyclical.  Even when the economy is doing great,  you're still gonna have two types of unemployment.  You're gonna have people between jobs,  frictionally unemployed,  and you have people being replaced by robots,  so structural unemployment.  So this line represents the idea of full employment.  No matter what, even if the economy is doing great,  we're still gonna have something like 5% unemployment.  But if the economy were to tank  and there'd be a decrease in consumer spending  and we have more unemployment, that would put us here.  We'd have frictional, structural, and cyclical unemployment.  And this represents the idea of a recession.  Okay, but what if the economy is doing really well  and we have something like only 2% unemployment?  To show that concept, let's add another line.  Now, this is not a shift  in the production possibilities curve.  This just represents 0% unemployment.  There's no frictional, there's no structural.  Everyone is working.  So if there's a whole lot of economic activity  and unemployment falls from 5% to only 2%,  that would be a move right here.  We're producing a lot of stuff  and we're here in the short run,  but it can't stay there in the long run.  It's not sustainable.  I'll talk more about that later.  For now, the important thing is to see  that this graph shows the economy  can only be in one of three places.  We can have a recession, we can have full employment,  or we can have an inflationary gap  with the economy overheating.  And all those concepts can be shown  on the second graph you learn, the business cycle.  Now, this is not one of those graphs  that your teacher or professor is gonna make you draw,  but it is gonna help you understand the concepts.  The economy goes down and up over time  and it creates a trend line  and that represents the idea of full employment.  When the economy experiences a recession,  there's a decrease in GDP and unemployment increases.  So we have frictional, structural,  and cyclical unemployment.  Then there's a recovery.  Unemployment starts to go down.  We end up at full employment  with only frictional and structural.  And if there's even more spending,  we can end up up here where we have frictional and structural  but just really small and we have a inflationary gap.  There's super low unemployment  and the economy is overheating.  And again, notice the economy  can only be in one of three places.  We can have a recessionary gap,  full employment, or an inflationary gap.  Now let's do that all over again  with the most important graph you need to know  for your macroeconomics class,  aggregate demand and aggregate supply.  This graph shows you the demand for everything  and the supply for everything.  And it sets the real GDP,  the amount we're gonna produce in the economy.  Let's start by saying we're producing at full employment.  We only have frictional and structural unemployment,  no cyclical unemployment.  If consumer spending were to fall,  then aggregate demand would shift to the left  and unemployment would increase.  So now we have frictional, structural,  and cyclical unemployment  and we're producing an output that's less  than our full employment output.  That's why this is called a negative output gap.  Now the government might come in  to use fiscal policy to close the gap  or the central bank might come in and use monetary policy,  but let's just assume we wait it out.  Over time, the economy self-adjusts.  The price of all these unused resources  and unused workers will eventually fall.  That'll mean producers can produce more stuff.  So the aggregate supply will shift to the right,  putting us back at full employment.  Let me show you that again  on the three graphs that we've covered so far.  We start at full employment  where there's only frictional and structural unemployment,  but then consumer spending falls,  there's a decrease in GDP,  and an increase in unemployment,  and we end up with a recessionary gap  or a negative output gap.  But that's just the short run.  In the long run, eventually, over time,  wages and resource prices will fall,  aggregate supply will increase,  and we'll end up here back in the long run.  And that explains why the long run  aggregate supply curve is vertical.  The economy can move around in the short run,  but eventually it's gonna end up right here  in the long run at full employment.  Okay, let's do the other side.  Let's assume we're at full employment  and there's an increase in consumer spending.  So now aggregate demand increases,  unemployment starts to fall,  and we end up with a positive output gap  or an inflationary gap.  But that's just showing the short run.  Eventually, over time, in the long run,  with all that inflation,  the price of resources, the price of workers  is gonna increase, and that means less production.  So the supply is gonna shift to the left,  and in the long run, put us at full employment  at the long run aggregate supply.  So these same concepts can be shown on three graphs,  but there's actually one more.  You learn it in unit five.  It's called the Phillips curve.  The graph shows the relationship  between inflation and unemployment,  and the vertical long run Phillips curve  represents the idea of full employment,  only frictional and structural unemployment.  So we're gonna end up there in the long run,  but in the short run, we can have an economy  that's doing really bad with high unemployment,  but also low inflation,  and that would be a negative output gap,  a recessionary gap,  or we can have an economy with very low unemployment,  except more higher prices,  and have an inflationary gap, which is right here.  When you connect those dots,  you get the short run Phillips curve.  So again, the graph shows the economy  can only be in one of three places.  We can have a negative output gap, full employment,  or a positive output gap, inflationary gap.  Okay, now let's put all the graphs together  and show an economy at full employment.  If there's a decrease in consumer spending  or business spending or government spending,  the aggregate demand would decrease,  and we'd end up with a negative output gap  with high unemployment.  But that's just the short run.  Eventually, over time, the economy self-adjusts,  prices of resources and wages will fall,  aggregate supply will shift to the right,  putting us back at the long run.  But notice what happened on the Phillips curve.  When aggregate supply shifted to the right,  the price level fell and GDP increased,  and that ended up with less unemployment.  So that means the entire short run Phillips curve  had to shift.  Now, here's a tip that might help you.  Anytime there's an increase or a decrease in aggregate demand  that's gonna move along the short run Phillips curve,  but if the aggregate supply shifts,  that's going to shift the short run Phillips curve.  Boom, awesome.  You got it?  These four graphs are the most important  because they show you where the economy is  and how it changes,  and it's what your teacher or professor  is gonna make you draw.  And that's why I just added brand new free responses  for each unit in my ultimate review package.  Now, of course, I gave you the answer keys  so you can check your answers,  but I also made exclusive videos  to explain each one of the questions  and give you tips to make sure you totally get it.  Again, these are all inside my ultimate review packet.  The link is below.  The point here is make sure you can draw  each one of these graphs and show changes  of what happened in the short run and the long run.  But we're not done.  Let's take a look at this.  This is the money market graph.  It shows you the demand and supply for money.  Now, this is nothing like the other graphs you've learned.  We can't show you on this graph  where is a negative output gap or a positive output gap.  This is a policy graph.  Changes on this graph affect the other four graphs  that we already talked about.  And the key here is to understand the role of interest rates  and how it affects spending.  That vertical supply of money  is set by the country's central bank  and increasing it or decreasing it  to affect the interest rate is called monetary policy.  For example, let's assume the economy is in a recession,  there's high unemployment,  and we have a negative output gap.  The central bank wants to speed up the economy  so they increase the money supply by buying bonds.  This would mean there's more money out there  for banks to loan out  and that would drive down the nominal interest rate.  So now interest rates are lower  so it's easier for businesses and consumers  to take out loans.  That would mean more spending  and an increase in aggregate demand  that would close that negative output gap  putting us at full employment.  But again, notice we're not showing  the idea of a recession on this graph.  We're showing the changes in this graph  how they affect that graph.  Okay, let's do that over again,  except this time assume we have a positive output gap  so we have really low unemployment,  except high inflation, and we're here.  The central bank comes in, realizes it's got a problem,  it'll decrease the money supply,  which will cause the interest rate to increase.  Higher interest rate means less borrowing,  less spending consumers and businesses  that would decrease the aggregate demand,  fight inflation, and put us back at full employment.  This is the idea of monetary policy.  Again, this is called the money market graph  and it shows you the supply and demand for money  and it sets the nominal interest rate.  But there's another graph you have to know  called the loanable funds market,  which sets the real interest rate.  This graph shows the demand of loans set by borrowers  and the supply of loans set by savers.  The main difference between the money market graph  and the loanable funds market  is that this one focuses on the short run  and sets the nominal interest rate,  whereas this one focuses on the long run  and sets the real interest rate.  Now, of course, there's more to it than that,  but I'm not gonna cover it now.  Instead, if you wanna learn more about that,  take a look in the link in the description.  One of the things you gotta know  about the loanable funds market  is that changes here can affect the economy  in the long run.  For example, assume that foreigners  wanna put a lot of money into your economy.  That would increase the supply of loanable funds  and decrease the real interest rate.  That means that consumers and businesses  are gonna take out more loans,  it's gonna increase consumer spending, and investment.  More investment means more factories  and tools and physical capital,  so we can produce more than we did before.  So a decrease in the real interest rate  means there's an increase in business spending  and investment, so aggregate demand goes up,  and because we have more tools, aggregate supply goes up,  and that means we also have an increase  in the long-run aggregate supply.  The economy is growing.  This shows the idea of economic growth.  And of course, you can show that same concept  on the production possibilities curve.  When the long-run aggregate supply curve shifts to the right,  we can produce more than we ever could before.  That's like this curve shifting outward,  making points over what's impossible, possible.  Again, the loanable funds market  doesn't show you where the economy is.  You can't draw a negative output gap  or a full employment on this graph,  but changes on this graph affect the other graphs  that show you where the economy is and how it's changing.  Okay, we talked about four graphs  that show where the economy is,  another graph that shows you how the central bank  affects the overall economy,  and another graph that shows you the effect of changes  in lending and borrowing.  Now it's time to look at other countries  buying your currency in the foreign exchange market.  This graph shows you the demand and supply of any currency,  let's say dollars, and it sets the exchange rate.  To keep it simple, the demand for dollars  is set by foreigners,  and the supply for dollars is set by residents.  And again, this graph doesn't show you where the economy is.  You can't draw a negative output gap  or full employment on this graph,  but changes on this graph affect net exports,  and that affects the overall economy.  For example, let's assume that Europeans  wanna buy more U.S. products.  They need dollars to pay for them,  that's gonna increase the demand for dollars.  The price of the dollar is gonna increase,  so the dollar appreciated relative to the euro.  But what's gonna happen now if the dollar appreciates  how's that gonna affect the overall economy?  Let's assume that the economy is at full employment.  If the dollar appreciates  and is now more expensive for Europeans,  Europeans can't buy as many American exports,  so the aggregate demand is gonna fall  because net exports falls.  Aggregate demand would go down,  and we end up here at a negative output gap.  Now there's a bunch of things that can change the supply  or the demand for your currency,  changes to inflation or income or interest rates.  Those all shift this curve,  but most importantly, you're gonna have to practice.  You have to sit down,  do a practice free response question  that says, okay, show an economy using the Phillips curve  or aggregate demand supply  or the production possibilities curve,  showing an economy with a recession,  then this event happens,  or there's a change in the money market graph  or the loanable funds market  or the foreign exchange market,  be able to show all those changes on all the graphs.  But there's still one more graph you might see,  it's right here,  it's called the aggregate expenditures model.  This graph is not part of the AP curriculum,  so if you're an AP class, do not learn this graph,  it might be in your book, just ignore it.  If you're in a college level,  university class, you might see this graph,  but I'm not gonna cover it in this video.  If you want me to make a separate video  talking about that graph,  let me know in the comments below  and let me know if this video helped you  and be sure to like and subscribe.  Thanks for watching this video until next time. 