 Okay guys, so let's maybe start warming up, getting a few more ideas together. So, if  you think about what we were trying to do, we wanted to calculate the force that a charged  particle would feel. We said that calculating the force that a charged particle would feel  amounted to calculating the electric field that would be set up by the source. And in  actual fact, we've already done that. There is the electric field set up by the source,  and there is the electric field set up by the source. So that original, very general  question that we wanted to ask, we have already answered. You tell me some distribution of  charges, and I will simply add up the electric field due to each charge. That gives me the  total electric field, and I know exactly what force is acting on my probe. I just multiply  by the charge of the probe. You give me a continuous charge distribution, and I'll  do this integral. And then I know exactly what the electric field is. Again, I'll just  multiply by the charge of the probe. I know exactly what force is acting on my probe.  So I have answered the question that I initially wanted to answer. However, we can ask ourselves,  how good is this answer? And to be honest, this answer is not very good. So, as you were  mentioning, you know, can we always calculate this integral? No. Many times we cannot, and  we have to do it numerically. And if you are considering a very complicated charge  distribution, or very, very many charges, in fact it can be numerically very expensive  to calculate either that sum or that integral. I had one PhD student in electrical engineering,  and what he was doing is he was calculating the electric and magnetic fields around a  plane. And they were doing it so that they could model very accurately the communication  system of the plane. So there was some company that built planes, and they asked our university,  can you model the electric and magnetic fields around a plane? And what you had to do,  you had to evaluate these kinds of integrals, and things similar to that. I can tell you that  he would start a program running on a supercomputer, and two months later we would get an answer.  So, actually when you have this answer written in terms of an integral and a sum,  sometimes that's not the most useful way of expressing the answer. So what we would like  to do now, even though we've answered our original question, we want to try to develop  some better ways of thinking about the electric field. And in fact we're going to write down  some equations, and what those equations will describe is the geometry of the field lines.  Of the electric field. So we're now going to, you know, think about the electric field,  develop another description that's got a bit more physics in it, and a bit more insight into it.  So to do that, we're going to need a little bit of mathematics.  So the math that we will need, we're going to start studying this operator.  So it's called nabla. It is x hat, and a partial derivative with respect to x,  plus y hat, a partial derivative with respect to y, plus z hat, and a partial derivative with  respect to z. It is a vector, it's got an x hat, a y hat, and a z hat component, but at the same  time it's also an operator. It acts by differentiating functions. So it's both a vector and an operator.  What kinds of things can you do with a vector?  I can multiply a vector with a scalar, right? So one of the things I should expect I can do,  I can take my nabla, and I can act on  a scalar field. That's one of the things I should be able to do.  If I've got two vectors, what can I do with them? Take a dot product or cross product. So  I should be able to take a vector field, and take a dot product with a vector field,  I should be able to take a cross product with a vector field. So these are natural things,  knowing that it's a vector, these are natural things that I should try to do with my  new object nabla. So this is what we're going to explore today.  And we're going to specifically explore this one, which is called the divergence  of V, and I think today we'll also start to explore this one, which is called the curl of V.  Okay, now I would like to draw some pictures.  So first of all, let's take V1, and let's imagine that it's the following vector field.  So V1 is equal to x, x hat, plus y, y hat. So I'm imagining it doesn't point in the z direction,  and it doesn't depend on the z direction, okay? And this is just for simplicity, it's going to  mean that we land up working in two dimensions where we can really visualise things.  So I'm just going to pick some value for z, it doesn't matter what value.  So this picture that I'm drawing has all the same value for z. You might say z is not,  so this is a picture of z is not. What does vary on this plane is x and y. So points on this plane  are given by an x, y value, they all have z is not. We have x hat pointing that way,  and y hat pointing that way. Now what I would like to do, I want to draw V1.  Now what I would like to do, I want to draw V1.  So I'll go to this point here.  So at this point here, x is 1. If x is 1 and y is 0, if I plug in x as 1 and y as 0, what is V1?  x hat. So I will just get a vector here, pointing in the x hat direction with a length of 1.  If I go to this point, here x is 2 and y is 0. So what is V1? 2x hat.  Here I have y as 1. What does the vector field look like?  y is 1, x is? V1 is?  Over here, 2y hat. What about over here?  What will the field look like here?  Here?  Good, so that's what it looks like. Here it would point out like that, here it would point out like that.  Here it would point out like that, here it would point out like that.  Good, so that's what it looks like. Here it would point out like that, here it would point out like that, here it would point out like that.  So that's the picture of V1.  I want you guys now to draw the picture for V2.  And let's take V2 to be  I want you guys now to draw the picture for V2.  And let's take V2 to be  y times x hat minus x times y hat.  So I want you guys to plot that vector field on your page.  So I want you guys to plot that vector field on your page.  Good.  Good.  Okay, can anyone tell me what the field looks like at this point, x is 1?  Which way does it point?  Up?  Down.  At x is 1 it points?  Down.  Because y is 0, x is 1, so it's minus y hat.  Because y is 0, x is 1, so it's minus y hat.  Good.  Down.  What about here?  y is?  No, y is?  Minus 1.  What is x?  x is 0.  x is 0, y is?  Minus 1.  It's minus x hat.  It's minus x hat.  Yeah?  x is up.  And if you go here, they get bigger.  And if you go here, they get bigger.  But the direction is the same.  But the direction is the same.  Even bigger.  But the direction is the same.  Yeah, that's circling around.  And that's exactly the right  intuition to take.  You might think of each of these arrows  as the velocities of some particles  that are moving.  And here, what are the particles doing?  They're spinning around, right?  Here, what are the particles doing?  They're spreading out.  Good.  Very good.  So here the particles are spreading,  there they are circling.  Diverge  is an English word.  Can someone tell me  what does diverge mean?  Me and my friend,  we took paths that diverged.  What does that mean?  My path went this way  and his path went  that way.  That's what it means to diverge.  Good.  Now, let's calculate  the divergence of  V1.  So let's do this first one  in detail, and you'll see  it's just the usual rules of using vectors.  So for now that we know  it's  x hat d by dx  plus y hat d  by dy plus  z hat d by dz  dotted into  x x hat plus  y y hat.  Good.  Now, when I do this multiplication  I multiply as usual, so I need to say  this into that plus this  into that, then the next term.  This into that, that into that.  The usual distributive property.  When I multiply  there's two things going on.  There's one piece which is the vectors  I should take the dot product  and then I have the derivative acting.  So the first thing that I'm going to do  is multiply the vectors with the dot product.  So I have  x hat dotted  into x hat. What does that give me?  One.  Then I have d by dx acting  on x. What does that give me?  One. One times one is?  You guys are great.  So that's the first term. One.  Plus  x hat dot y hat  plus  y hat dot x hat  plus y hat  dot y hat  d by dy times y  Don't be too eager.  One. One times one  plus  z hat dot x hat  z hat dot y hat  One plus naught plus naught  plus one plus naught plus naught  Great.  Two.  So that's what we got.  The divergence of this field is two.  I want you guys  I want you guys to work out now  on your page  What is the divergence of V2?  Do it!  Do it!  Do it!  Do it!  Okay guys, what did you get for the divergence of V2?  Zero. Good.  Divergence of V2 is zero.  That's perfect.  Now, look at this.  In this situation  the particles really are moving away  from each other.  The divergence is positive.  In this situation the particles are not moving  away from each other. They're just circulating  around. The divergence is  zero.  What would happen if the divergence is negative?  The particles are moving towards each other.  So when you calculate the divergence  you learn  about  the particles, or you can think about the electric field  lines. This will hold for the electric field lines too.  You learn are the electric  field lines moving away  from each other? Are they coming  towards each other? Or are they  just circulating around?  So by calculating the divergence  of the electric field, we're able  to now start making statements about the  geometry of the electric field lines.  And we want to write down a set of equations  for the geometry of the field lines  that will determine the field lines completely.  One of the things that we  will use is the divergence of the  electric field.  Good. Now,  in fact, you've got a nice  intuitive picture of the divergence  and the picture that you've got is  the correct one. But it's a little  bit more subtle than  what I've said here. So let's  now take a look at divergence  and develop it so that you've really  got the full story.  This picture, keep in  your minds. This is the right picture to have.  But it's a little bit more subtle and let me  explain why.  I again want to consider two  electric fields  or two vector fields  and I again want you to calculate the divergence.  But the vector fields that I want to consider now  are the following.  Let's maybe call one of them  u1.  And let's say  it is equal to  x times  pi x hat.  No y hat component,  just an x component.  So if we want to draw  u  on this line  over here, what does u look like?  It's just  the zero vector. Everyone agree?  Because on this line over here  x is 0.  On this line over here where x is 1,  what does the vector field look like?  Length 1.  On this line over here  where the vector field is 2, what does the  vector field look like?  Length 2.  And now I want you to think  about the following.  Imagine that these lines  tell us the speed  of some water particles.  So those are the  velocities of water, so there's some water  going past.  And I'm going to put a screen here.  So here is a screen and I want you to measure  how much water goes past this screen.  Think about how much  water goes past. You've got the velocity  of all of these water particles.  They're not moving that fast at each  point past the screen. That's how  fast the water is moving.  Now look at this point.  The water is moving much faster  past this screen. Do you agree?  So between this screen and this screen  there must be some water that's  being added to the system.  If you measure the amount of water going past  this screen, the particles are moving  with a speed of 1  meter per second.  If you measure the amount of water passing  through past this screen, the particles  are moving with a speed of 2  meters per second. So over here  you know the river is flowing quite  slowly. Over here  the river is flowing twice as fast.  In between  these two points there must be some  water that you're putting into the system.  Because there's more water flowing  past this point where the water is  flowing twice as fast as  it is past this point  where the water is flowing more slowly.  Is everybody happy with that?  Anyone who's not  happy would like me to say it again.  Now happily say it again if you want.  Good.  No.  Like what?  Okay, so  if there was slope  then when the water ran faster  you would see that the river  has to get thinner.  Because if you are  if there's the same amount of water  flowing but each particle is moving  faster, it means the area  that the water's flowing through  must have decreased.  In this situation  in this situation  in the z direction  nothing changes because nothing depends  on z. So imagine here  in this wall, everywhere on that wall  there's water flowing with  velocity v.  And then everywhere on this wall  there is water flowing with velocity 2v  at every point.  Past this wall  if you want to get the amount of water that's flowing  you need to take that area  and multiply it by the volume.  For that wall you need to take  that area, sorry  you need to take this area and multiply  it by the velocity that the water's flowing at.  For that wall you take that  area and multiply it by the velocity.  And because the water's passing  that wall slower than  it is passing this wall  there must be more water flowing here than there is  flowing past there. Happy with that?  Good.  Happy? Good.  I feel slightly unhappy  Just think of the dimensions  Area times velocity  times volume per second  So the volume here  the volume there  the volume per second here  is more than  Exactly. Yep.  Now  what that means is in the middle here  there must be more water particles  being injected into the system.  Does everyone agree? So there's more water  being put in.  Now I want you guys to calculate  I want to know  what is the divergence  of U1?  One?  Good.  The divergence of U1 is one.  See you guys only started doing  divergences ten minutes  ago. And now  you're already doing them in your heads.  That's great.  The divergence is one and yet  it doesn't look like the particles are moving away  from each other, right? They're all moving next  to each other. What this divergence  is actually measuring is  how much extra  particles are being put  into the system.  And here at each  point we're putting in the same  number of particles. So it's telling  us about the source.  Where the particles are coming  from. The source of  the field.  So it could be the source  of the water particles. There's a tap  that's putting water into the system.  Let's do another one.  Let's now say that  U2  is equal to  x hat. In this case  the field  looks the same everywhere.  So  if we look at any particular screen  here, the amount of  water passing each screen is exactly  the same. Does everyone agree?  Because the speed is the same.  How many particles are being added to  this system? None.  What's the divergence of  U2? Zero.  Absolutely. Good.  That's it. That's the complete story of the divergence.  So the right  intuitive picture is that the field  lines move away from each other, but  what it's actually telling you is  what is the source of that field.  Can you guys tell me  what is the source of the electric field?  Charge.  It's charge that sets up the  electric field. Everyone agree?  What we're going to learn is that one of  Maxwell's equations says  the divergence of the electric field  on this side you would expect  charge. It actually turns out  to be charge density  over epsilon naught.  Constant. So that's  one of the equations that we're going to get. And you can see  this looks very natural because  the charge is the source  for the electric field.  Okay? Good.  So that's divergence.  Any questions on divergence?  Good. 