 Anyone who's ever started a home improvement project knows that measuring is the first  and most important step in any process.  Even the slightest miscalculation can throw off your project.  If you've used traditional measuring tools, you know how frustrating and inefficient this  can be, especially with hard-to-measure spaces.  Introducing 3DASER, a revolutionary measuring device that turns your iPhone into a smart  laser measurer.  3DASER is a patented, more advanced, and convenient way to measure.  It'll simplify and cut your measuring time to a fraction of what you'd normally have  to spend, and make your project go more smoothly.  3DASER attaches magnetically, so all you have to do is snap the case that's included with  the 3DASER onto your iPhone, and you're ready to go.  3DASER is the only measuring device on the market that's driven by an iPhone app.  This enables it to use iPhone's advanced embedded sensors to make it more powerful.  With 3DASER, you can measure the space directly or indirectly, making measuring simple and  easy.  Measuring tasks that were once next to impossible are suddenly made effortless.  3DASER is sleek, compact, and comes with its own drawstring pouch, making it easy and convenient  to have with you wherever you go.  Use 3DASER to measure objects as well as spaces.  With a click of a button, switch to indirect mode to measure the distance between two points.  After measuring, record the measurement.  Take a photo, and add either text notes or a voice memo.  3DASER will automatically store on your iPhone for future reference.  Much like the cat's paw that's on the back of the QuickRipper, it's basically coming  around the head and pulling the nail out backwards.  The QuickRipper has got that cat's paw, but it's also got these jaws.  They don't pull just about anything you put in there.  It screws staples, nails, whatever.  You actually get a lot more collaboration with the QuickRipper.  More force up top.  More of it is transmitted.  It's a little more just the way it's designed.  So as you're pulling it out, it's gripping harder and harder.  The harder you pull, the harder it grips.  It makes just about anything.  It's a pain to get out.  You can only grab one side at a time.  The QuickRipper has wide jaws.  You can grab both sides at the same time.  It's much easier to get it out.  It's better where it's at.  It's possible to get it all the way around with the QuickRipper.  The jaws won't pull out as much, unfortunately.  Because you can actually get right into a corner.  Things like confidence.  Right now, a conventional hand can't get a nail past a certain point.  The QuickRipper allows you to take a second bite at that nail and pull it all the way through.  Pretty much no matter how long the nail is, you can get it out with the QuickRipper.  It doesn't matter if the nail is mangled or headless.  In fact, it's got enough gripping force that you can actually grab the pointed end of the nail.  Pull it right through a corner.  It doesn't matter if the head is there or not.  The QuickRipper helps everybody with several different tools.  It replaces a lot of tools that you would normally have to carry around.  Things like locking pliers, a bar, a crowbar, a hammer.  It replaces several tools at once.  So you don't have to hunt for another tool when the one you have won't do the job.  Because the QuickRipper does them all.  It can actually help you repurpose wood.  You can take old boards off the deck and pull all the nails off.  No matter how embedded that head is.  You just grab the little thing and pull it through.  It works really well.  You can reuse all those boards.  It works great for trim.  Because trim always uses those little tiny brass that are hard to get out.  You can't get out until you get it back.  You can just grab it from the back side and pull it right through.  It saves everybody time.  No matter what they're brought to.  The QuickRipper was designed to be used by everybody from professionals down to your own.  For more than 30 years, a Leatherman multi-tool has been the go-to solution for a lot of different problems.  In so many different places.  On the trail.  Between here and over there.  In a bass boat.  On Lake Manitonka.  Here in the kitchen.  Right under there.  And starting today, that includes some of the places we haven't been able to go.  Gate 72.  Row 12.  Seat A.  Introducing TREAD.  The first multi-tool that lets you be the one who gets it done.  Anywhere.  TREAD is 25 hard-working tools you wear on your wrist.  Including Phillips and flathead screwdrivers.  Hex and box wrenches.  Even a cutting hook.  And a bottle opener.  So regardless of the job, the right tool is always at hand.  TREAD features 11 interchangeable links.  Each crafted from injection-molded 17-4 stainless steel.  There's an optional Swiss-made timepiece.  Water-resistant to 200 meters.  With a shock-resistant sapphire crystal.  And it all comes with a choice of two rugged finishes.  Everything that we need to do can be done with the M18 system.  I was blown away.  We were blown away, the crew and I.  When I first started using it, I was surprised it wasn't corded.  I couldn't believe it was battery-operated.  The power was just phenomenal.  Even with its smaller size, it gets through everything that we need it to do.  It's small, it's compact, it's colorful.  The quality, the power, the dependability.  I'm impressed.  You never have to worry about it if you've got an M18.  You never have to worry about if you've got a power source or not.  Definitely, you're not going to beat the power and the mobility of it.  It's very important that all the batteries are interchangeable.  It keeps us going. It's gravity and gold.  It's an amazing lineup.  It is a perfect tool for everything that we do.  It's really a game-changer for us.  It's very important to have the new 12.0 batteries  when you're running heavy-duty tools, doing heavy-duty things.  What Milwaukee Tool has done is amazing.  This is the new 11061 Self-Adjusting Wire Stripper.  This is a great tool for HVAC applications specifically  because it allows you to strip the outer jacket of the thermostat wire  and then also allows you to strip all the individual wires associated with that,  whether you have a 5, 4, 3, or even a 7 conductor  because of the automatic self-adjusting heads.  You have the one thumb wheel here that allows you to adjust  the tension that comes down on top of the wire.  And then you also have another adjustment here that will adjust the wire stop.  So depending on the length that you're looking at cutting or stripping,  this allows you to do that.  Again, with this, it allows you to put the outer jacket  into the stripping head here and self-adjust.  You take that out, and then all of a sudden you have  all the different conductors there to where you can then place it in there,  make a slight adjustment on the wheel, and self-adjust again.  This tool also features a wire cutting mechanism here,  which you can cut to whatever wire length you need.  www.ottobock.com 