 Quantum mechanics is supposed to be our best theory of physics.  That's because it can tell us what will happen in any experiment that we've tried.  But science is also meant to explain why things happen.  Quantum mechanics doesn't give us why, because we still don't understand how to interpret  its meaning at all.  For example, when an object starts at A and ends up at B, does quantum mechanics say that  it goes all possible ways at once, or that there are many copies of each object in many  different universes, each going a different way?  Or does it say that it doesn't even make sense to talk about something when we're not looking  at it?  These are all possible ways to interpret quantum mechanics, at least on face value.  In this video, we're going to look at the basic rules of quantum mechanics to understand  why its meaning is so evasive.  We're about to look at an experiment that showed that nature has a very strange rule.  Objects act differently when they're not being measured.  Before we get to that though, we need to understand when objects are and aren't being measured.  So let's look at this familiar situation.  You've lost an object, but you're sure you left it either here or here.  You're not currently measuring its position yourself, because you're not looking to see  where it is.  However, consider that there are many other things that are measuring it.  For example, think of all the light particles bouncing off it right now.  They're essentially taking a photo of where your object is.  Or what about the air molecules that would have gone straight through where your object  is if it wasn't there, but are now bouncing off that position?  They're also measuring your particle's real position.  And that's how it usually is.  Objects are constantly being measured by other things.  So then this statement that objects act differently when they're not being measured doesn't apply  for everyday objects, which is why we didn't notice this rule for such a long time.  But then scientists started to look at very small things, like electrons.  Things like air molecules and light aren't constantly hitting them because they're small  enough to sort of fit in the gaps.  So what exactly do objects like that do when no one is watching?  Let's get back to the scenario where our object, so in this case our electron, is definitely  in this spot or this spot.  But we now know that nothing is measuring it.  We expect that objects can only be in one place at a time.  Even if you don't know where that place is, you know it's in one of the places, you just  don't know which.  And this is usually true.  But in the case where nothing at all is measuring our object, like our electron, the following  experiment will show us that this isn't true.  The electron can't be at one place at a time while it's not being measured.  This experiment is called the double slit experiment and here's how it goes.  We're going to fire electrons one at a time from here.  When they get to this back wall, the place where the electron hits lights up.  How do we make a wall that lights up on contact with electrons?  The physics is a two step process.  First, find one of those clever experimentalist people, and two, ask them to use their experimental  physics magic to help you.  Simple.  The point is, we know where the particle starts, and somehow we measure where it ends.  But in the middle we don't measure it, and hopefully nothing else is measuring it either.  Then put in a barrier with two tiny doors in it.  Obviously there's a good chance that an electron fired towards this barrier doesn't make it,  but we're going to ignore any that don't get through.  The electrons that do get through, must have gone through via the doors.  We'd expect that it went through one of these doors, it's just that we don't know which  one.  But we'll see that, while the electron isn't being measured by anything, this isn't the  case.  It doesn't go through a single door.  To show this, we're going to predict where the electrons would have landed if they acted  as we expected, and see that it's different from the actual result of this experiment.  To get our prediction, we need to know what an electron that definitely went through only  one door would do.  So let's close one door and actually do this experiment.  As you can see, electrons going through this door end up in a pile behind the door.  And of course, if we had done it with the other door open instead, then similarly, electrons  would end up behind that door in a bunch.  So if we know an electron goes through one of the doors, then we know approximately where  it will land.  Now say both doors are open, and we predict each electron has to go through one door.  We're going to make sure that the electrons are fired slowly enough so that different  electrons can't go through together and then interact with each other.  Now we predict that some of our electrons will go through this door, but we know electrons  going through this door end up here, because that's what happened in the single door experiment.  And similarly, others will go through the other door, and end up here.  So if each electron goes through just one door, then we must get two piles.  And yet this prediction is completely wrong.  We have to conclude that the electrons didn't go through just one door each.  But I know what some of you are thinking.  Then they must have gone through both.  In other words, the electron quite literally gets cut into two, part of its mass goes one  way, and the other part the other way.  Then these two parts of the object bump into each other, causing them to ricochet wildly  and the weird pattern.  Or in some versions of this explanation, the particle splits into two, and then flattens  out into two waves that interfere with each other.  Unfortunately, there are many problems with these sorts of explanations.  Firstly, if it splits into two bits, or if it spreads out, then when you measure it at  the wall, you'd expect to get two dots or a spread out smear.  That's not what happens though.  One electron through gives you one crisp dot.  But some people believe a more complicated version of this wave story to get around this,  that goes, it's a wave when you're not looking, but when you measure it, it becomes  a particle again.  That would mean that as soon as the electron hits the back wall, it has to immediately  pick up all of its mass, from everywhere it spread out to, and gather into a particle  again.  But moving mass around takes energy.  Where's the electron supposed to get that from?  There is a sense that waves are involved in this experiment, but it's much more subtle  than you may have been led to believe.  Anyway, the point is, the double slit experiment showed us some important things.  Where nothing watches what an object does, it doesn't just do one of the options.  We can't see that directly, but we can infer that from the experiment.  And the object doesn't physically split up and have parts of itself do each of these  options.  So what exactly is the object doing behind our backs?  And how are we supposed to predict the results of this experiment?  They're crazy.  And it isn't just the double slit experiment that had unexpected results, by the way.  Loads of other experiments showed that particles are doing something really fishy when we're  not looking.  And that's why scientists invented quantum mechanics.  It's some nice maths that you can tell an experiment to, and it tells you what you can  expect.  And so far, it's always been exactly right, which is a grand achievement.  But we still want to know, what's the particle actually doing?  But this quantum mechanics doesn't tell us.  It's just a bunch of maths, after all.  In fact, some physicists say that it doesn't even make sense to talk about an object that  isn't being measured.  That it doesn't exist.  This seems crazy to me, and thankfully to many others too.  Recently, more physicists have started to tackle this question again, and they've even  started to tease meaning out of this mathematics, amazingly, by using more mathematics.  It's a really exciting time to be asking questions about this theory.  That's why I'm making a series of videos on quantum mechanics.  The first set of videos will teach you the rules of quantum, which are mathematical,  but they're really not hard, and you don't need any background in maths or physics already  to understand them.  After that, we'll cover fun topics, including quantum computing, eventually, which is what  I'm doing my PhD on.  When the next video is up, you can click here to see it.  Feel free to subscribe if you want to know when that happens.  Meanwhile, you can try these homework problems to see how much you understood from this video.  Write your answers in the comments if you'd like, I read them and it helps me a lot to  understand which bits were the trickiest.  First question.  We talked about doing the double slit experiment with small things like electrons, but is there  any reason, in theory, that we couldn't have done it with bigger things, and what  would you need to do to make it work?  Second question.  We didn't measure where the electron went in the middle of the experiment, but it is  possible, and so if we were to measure each door to see which one the electron went through,  what would we find?  And what would happen to the pattern on the back wall?  Finally, there is another way to interpret the double slit experiment, which I think  is really cool.  It's called pilot wave theory, and I've made a video about it.  In that theory, the particle goes through just one door, even though our argument said  that that's not possible.  Find the flaw in our argument.  Also, comment on why particles still act strange in the pilot wave theory.  I hope you have a go at some of these questions, and ask anything that you didn't understand  below.  I'll see you in the next video of the Understanding Quantum Mechanics series. 