 By now, you've probably already heard about the new buzzword thrown around in tech circles,  the Metaverse.  The whole buzz started when Facebook announced a few weeks ago that they'll be changing  their name to Meta.  It sure caught everyone by surprise, but it's worth noting that Facebook was already working  on products and services around this field.  Reality Labs, Facebook's division working on AR and VR projects, already has 10,000  with a plan to hire 10,000 more in the coming months.  So let's see what all the fuss is about.  First off, let's define what the Metaverse actually is.  It's basically a combination of virtual and augmented reality that allows us to work,  play and interact with others, but in a digital space.  With augmented reality, we overlay digital content and information into the physical  world.  And with VR, the physical world completely disappears and everything surrounding us is  completely digital.  There's also mixed reality, which is in a way a more immersive version of AR.  In mixed reality, we're not limited to simple overlays of information.  We can have more elaborate interactions between the virtual and real objects.  That's basically what the Metaverse is.  I'm not a fan of the term, but tech companies always like to use jargony buzzwords.  The term actually comes from Neal Stephenson's 1992 novel, Snow Crash, so it's not something  Facebook invented or something that hasn't been discussed or researched before.  Even though companies have already poured years of research into the field, we're still  very much in the early stages.  The tech responsible for providing these rich experiences is not fully there yet and hasn't  seen the wide adoption required to propel AR and VR development to the next level.  The headsets, which is the main way to experience the Metaverse, can be bulky and uncomfortable  to wear.  But as technology advances and devices shrink in size, AR and VR experiences will enter  our day-to-day lives.  And that's what Facebook is banking on.  But it's not just Facebook.  Pretty much every tech company in the world has skin in the game.  Google, Microsoft, Apple, Magic Leap, they're all working on devices or software implementations  for VR and AR.  Apple uses common everyday devices like the iPad and the iPhone to deliver augmented reality  experiences.  It's a more conservative approach, but the key pieces to expand things even further are  already there.  Apple's AR implementation is deeply integrated into the OS.  Anyone with an iPhone or an iPad can download an application that uses AR.  They've also created the ARKit framework and the USDZ 3D format.  These are the two key ingredients for developers and con-creators to deliver AR experiences.  And of course, for years now, we've been hearing rumors about Apple working on some  sort of headset.  Microsoft is a bit more aggressive in the AR space, and it's already in a second-generation  headset.  HoloLens has managed to showcase what can be done when the screen is not just a secondary  display but a wearable device.  The headset is still expensive and bulky, but all these things can be and will be improved  in the coming years.  Just a couple of months ago, they've announced Mesh, a mixed-reality experience that lets  people with AR and VR headsets and even tablets to work and share moments together.  Google is also actively working on several AR and VR projects, and throughout the years,  they've tried different approaches.  Cardboard, for example, is Google's approach to make VR available to everyone by using  a phone as the delivery tool.  As you can imagine, the experience is not the best, but it shows another valid approach,  one that doesn't require an expensive headset.  So all in all, there's a ton of activity from all major tech companies.  Devices like the HoloLens or the Oculus Rift are way too bulky and expensive for mass adoption.  So for now, metaverse experiences are limited to early adopters or to companies that have  deep pockets and can implement cutting-edge technology into their workflow.  But of course, as is always the case in tech, the size of the devices will shrink.  And the same goes for the cost of producing and purchasing a headset.  So it's not really a matter of if we're going to experience the metaverse, but when.  This doesn't mean that we will live in a virtual world 24x7.  The use cases can be as simple as getting directions to a restaurant with visual cues  right into the physical world.  Of course, we will see more elaborate use cases, and I think AR and VR will have a huge  impact in certain areas of our day-to-day life.  For example, in the way we work.  Imagine collaborating on a project with someone from the other side of the world, but through  the use of mixed reality, it will feel like you're working side-by-side.  We don't even know yet all the different ways we will use AR and VR, or the impact  this technology will have in our day-to-day life.  The more we work with it, the more uses we will find.  For years now, Microsoft has been making these beautiful concept videos outlining our future  with tech.  And AR and VR plays a big role in that.  Facebook's vision of the future overlaps with Microsoft's and most other companies  experimenting in the field.  The problem with Facebook's metaverse doesn't have to do with what's being presented.  The company does showcase some really nice examples, and also seems to get the basics  right.  The problem, in this case, is the company itself.  Just a couple of weeks ago, the Wall Street Journal and a series of reports based on leaked  internal Facebook documents exposed some serious issues with the way Facebook and its products  operate.  Here's a quick rundown.  Facebook has a two-tier justice system, with celebrities and politicians being protected  from the network's enforcement systems.  Facebook knew that Instagram had an impact on body image issues, especially in young  girls, but did nothing to improve the situation, in fear of reduced engagement.  Facebook is also aware that their network is being used for things like human trafficking  and forced labor, but has done little to change the situation.  And last but not least, the adjustments in Facebook's algorithm that were meant to  boost engagement and increase time on the site, ended up promoting divisive and sensational  content and misinformation.  Despite employees ringing the alarm bell, the leadership of the company chose to not  make any changes.  I would definitely encourage you to go through Wall Street Journal's podcasts and articles.  I'll have them in the description below.  Their research highlights everything that is wrong with Facebook, and showcases Facebook's  priorities.  Company over country.  A motto Zuckerberg himself used several times in company meetings.  Something that Facebook denied, but it's been corroborated by many employees.  As you can see, as exciting as the metaverse might be, it can also be an extremely scary  place.  It's important that the companies involved in this space, prioritize their interests  over our own.  I do believe we will see amazing things in AR and VR, and what Facebook calls the metaverse  will be as revolutionary as the internet.  But when it comes to Facebook, I cannot help but be skeptical.  No matter how sleek Zuckerberg's presentation might be, we must not forget that it's coming  from a company that has showcased time and time again, complete disregard in the common  good.  So, if we're not being careful, we could very easily end up in a dystopian future.  And I definitely don't want us to end up like the humans in Wall-E, moving around in  chairs and permanently connected to VR.  Or like in Ready Player One, where VR is just an escape from reality.  The examples are way too many to mention.  But I don't think we'll come to that.  I'm sure there will be bumps along the way, but overall, I remain optimistic.  I think we do understand how bad things can turn out, so I think everyone, companies included,  will exercise some caution.  At least, I hope so.  On the positive side, the metaverse will also bring a whole lot of business opportunities.  If it's going to be as huge as people guess, whole businesses will exist in this digital  space.  And if this virtual world is going to be any interesting, it will need some serious dressing  up.  Every single element will have to be built from scratch, whether that is a table that  will decorate someone's virtual house, or graph elements for a 3D powerpoint presentation.  So if you're a con creator, there's a whole new world of opportunity there.  There will be an immense demand for 3D artists, graphic designers, and artists in general.  People will always want to have a custom object or avatar, something that will make them stand  out and be different than everyone else.  We've already seen a small example of that, with artists offering avatars for the metaverse  when buying their NFTs.  The way I see it, there's going to be a whole new industry based on asset creation for the  metaverse, so if you have the know-how, your abilities will be indispensable.  And going back to NFTs, I think they will play a huge role in the metaverse.  The blockchain is the best way to solve provenance and to safely store digital assets for years  to come.  And if companies are smart enough to enable crosstalk between their metaverse implementations,  the blockchain will be the perfect tool to ensure that the assets you bought can be transferred  through.  So what should we make of the metaverse?  I think we're going to experience some amazing stuff in this new AR and VR world.  But things can also turn sour really fast, so we need to be careful of what we implement  and how we implement it.  But that's just my opinion.  How do you feel?  Are you scared or feeling excited?  Let me know in the comments below.  I'm really curious to see what others think.  And that's it for this video.  Take care, and I'll see you on the next one. 