 Hello, welcome, just wanted to show off my camping car that I have, it's a 2014 Jeep  Patriot.  So what we did, I opened this up and I just built this whole, you know, camping setup  in the back.  So I won't go through it, basically I made this, it's just plywood, built this myself.  I have a drawer that slides out, so as you can see here we've got two jugs of water,  holds 5 gallons total, and you can pull this out and say you want to wash your hands, maybe  do your dishes, brush your teeth, whatever, just turn it on, you have basically running  water in a sink.  I use drinking water too so that you can fill up your water bottle or whatever you want.  And when you're done, just take the water and just pour it out, that way you don't have  to worry about draining it or anywhere, put it wherever you want.  And this is just a mixing bowl that I got from Ikea.  So that goes in there, we have a pull-out, you know, another pull-out countertop for  a little extra room.  And then what's back here is where I keep my pots, so I just got a basic pot and a pan.  And under here I store my stove, so you can do all that, and there you go, you're cooking  up, you know, some mac and cheese.  So it all stores pretty easy in there, it's, you know, nice, you can just pull over on  the side of the road, open it up, make some lunch, whatever you want to do.  This is just a little bin, keep my flashlight, my tape, different things like that, and that  just slides up right here.  And this just all goes in, stores away easy, painted some trees here just because.  All right, and then over here, these are two bins, I actually got these at The Container  Store, which is a fantastic store.  In the top drawer, I just keep sort of my basic kitchen stuff, like the coffee grinder,  spatula, spices, different things like that.  Down here is my, you know, I got sandwich bags, got the dishwashing stuff, coffee press,  so nice, just simple storage, you know.  And right here, the crowning glory jewel.  This is a fridge in the back of a Jeep, so it's not really a fridge, I guess, it's actually  a iceless cooler.  It just plugs into a cigarette lighter and sort of sucks air in, but it keeps things  pretty cold.  I mean, we keep half and half in here and it stays fine.  We got our beers, everything like that, so it's pretty nice, stays really cold, actually.  And then you can see here, I just put these little wood blocks to hold everything in place  so it doesn't shift while we're going down the road, and we've taken this thing off-roading  a little bit, it does fine.  Up here I got a magnetic light, too, which is pretty nice, so at night it just lights  up the whole thing, stays right up there.  And then if you could see, I don't know if you want to come over here, I installed these  custom plugs that basically just allow me to plug in the fridge back here without having  to run the cord to the front, and I put in two cigarette lighters, one's on all the time  and one is on the key.  So that's basically it.  Got these tailgating speakers, too, which is pretty fun.  Oh, and over here we have our paper towel holder, and we have a trash can right here,  and it's all on this suction cup, which just comes off like that, pretty easy.  You just put it on, and the suction cup's just like this.  Awesome.  All right, so I just wanted to show off how this is sort of all mobile, too, and you can  take it out, and I'll kind of show you how I built everything and how it all fits in  here.  So right now I'm just going to take everything out, if you want to move it to your campsite  or whatever, take it out of the back of your Jeep, I'll just show you how quick and easy  that is.  So I'm just going to start doing that now.  So here it all is, just comes out, not a big deal, pretty easy to take out.  And then if you come over here, I'll show you how I have it all installed in the Jeep.  So I have this board, this just piece of plywood down here, and I put these blocks,  which basically stop this stuff from moving forward and back.  These ones for the fridge I have are removable plugs, so that I can take those out, because  sometimes I'll sleep in the car, and I sleep on this whole side, so it's nice to take those  out so they're not in the way.  And then this whole thing comes out really easy, because it's on a, it's just a piece  of wood, and I drilled, you can see these little holes right here, these little notches.  And in here, I put some, just nuts right here that hold, that just hold it on there.  So it just places on top, and then it just holds itself like that.  And so I have these, these things to hold the fridge and the drawers, and then for the  big thing that holds out the, slides out with the sink and everything like that, I  have these latches on the back, right here, which hold it in place and allow it so it  doesn't fall out when you pull the drawer out, and the weight doesn't flip the thing  out.  So I mean, that's it, and now you have an empty Jeep, and it's pretty easy.  So yeah, thanks for watching, hope you enjoyed it.  Let me know, send comments, do whatever, thanks.  Thanks.  We're done. 