 Introduction to Scrum, a seven-minute training video with details on what you  need to start using Scrum today.  This video is intended for people who are just getting started with the Scrum  framework and need a quick primer. Hi, my name is Steve Steadman and I am the  founder of Usility Software. In this video we will cover the basics behind  Scrum and we'll take a look at how Scrum compares to waterfall development and  we'll examine the three roles, three artifacts, and three ceremonies that make  up Scrum. First, let's take a look at how Scrum compares to the older alternative  of waterfall development. Waterfall typically goes through a lengthy  planning process, which could take several months, followed by building the  product, which again could take many months, and then testing the product,  reviewing, and eventually deploying the product. At this point you may end up  bringing the wrong product to market if market demand or technology has changed  since the original plan was developed. There are several problems with this  method. First of all, the planning must be completed before any work begins and  in most cases the planning is done without entirely understanding the  project. Once development is being done, oftentimes things get sent back to the  planning phase and the project either needs to start over or the developers  are just criticized for not understanding the plan. This cycle can  happen many times. When development is done building the product it gets thrown  over the fence to test, where when problems are encountered it bounces back  to development and sometimes back to planning. The same issues occur in the  next few steps with lots of backstepping and doing over. This can lead to lag  times and many months to several years in order to get a product out the door.  With Scrum, an implementation of Agile, the process is broken up into smaller  pieces. First we do just enough planning to get started with, building the minimal  feature set. We build what was planned. Next we test and review that small  feature set and get it ready to ship. When that cycle is complete we end up  with a potentially shippable product. This process usually occurs in a time  period of one to three weeks. This is then repeated time and time again  reducing the time from planning to development to testing. Each time through  the planning process we're doing just enough planning to complete the next  incremental release. You end up with several incremental releases called  sprints. A sprint usually takes from one to three weeks and you just keep  repeating these sprints until your product is feature complete. Sometimes  you may end up shipping your product after the second sprint, or the third, or  the fourth, or even further, but you eventually end up with a shipping  product.  In Scrum there are three key roles that are needed for the framework to work  well. First, the product owner. This is the person responsible for defining the  features that are needed in the product. The product owner has the bright ideas  that turn into products. The Scrum Master is a servant leader to the team  responsible for protecting the team and the process, running the meetings, and  keeping things going. The team can be made up of developers, testers, writers,  and anyone else that helps in building the product. Team members often play  multiple roles. Some days developers may end up doing tests, or testers may end up  writing. Either way, the team works to get the product done.  There are three artifacts, or documents, that are used in Scrum. First, the product  backlog. This is where product owners create a prioritized list of features  known as user stories that could go into the product. This list evolves and  changes priority with every sprint. User stories are a way of describing a  feature set that follows the, as a user, I need something, so that, reason, format.  This way of phrasing a user story allows the product owner to specify the right  amount of detail for the team to estimate the size of the task. The highest  priority user stories go into the sprint backlog. These get estimated for size and  are committed to for the next sprint. Burn down charts show the progress during  a sprint on the completion of tasks in the sprint backlog. This chart should  approach zero points as the work is being completed.  There are three ceremonies that make up Scrum. Think of these as meetings or  discussions. Sprint planning is where the product owner, Scrum master, and team meet  to discuss the user stories and estimate their relative sizes. The daily Scrum is  a brief stand-up meeting where the team 