 In this section, we're going to prove some identities, and to do these problems, you need to have memorized those basic identities,  the reciprocal, ratio, and Pythagorean identities. And then, we're going to put those identities together with a little bit of algebra,  and prove some more difficult identities. Here's our first one.  We want to prove that cosθ times tanθ is equal to sinθ. So, I'll start with the more complicated side,  and I'm going to take cosθ, tanθ, and rewrite it as cosθ times sinθ over cosθ,  using my ratio identity that says tanθ is always sinθ over cosθ.  Now, I'll divide out the common factor cosθ, and that simplifies into sinθ.  So, I've succeeded in taking this expression, and with a little bit of identities from trigonometry,  and a little bit of algebra here, simplifying it into sinθ. So, I've proved that cosθ times tanθ is always equal to sinθ.  Here's our next one. I want to show that cosx times cosx plus tanx is equal to cotx plus sinx.  So, I think I'll start on this side, on the more complicated side here, and I'm going to apply my distributive property,  and multiply cosx times both of these terms here. So, when I do that, I'll have cosx times cosecant x plus cosx times tangent x.  And let's see, I have cosx times cosecant is 1 over sinx. So, I can use that reciprocal identity.  And then, I'll have cosx here times, I'm going to change this to sines and cosines using my ratio identity that tanx is sinx over cosx.  Now, I'm keeping an eye on this side. I want to change this side into this side. So, I'm going to need a sinx and a cotx.  I think I've got it here. cosx times 1 over sinx is cosx over sinx, plus, that's my plus sign here, cosx times sine over cosine.  I'll divide out that common factor of cosine, and I have left sinx. And so, I see I've succeeded in getting what I want here,  cosx over sinx, using my ratio identity, that's cotx plus sinx. And I've succeeded in changing the left side of this expression of this identity  into the right side. So, I've essentially proved this identity. So, you can see by watching what I've done right here,  that you need to know those basic identities, reciprocal identities, ratio identities, and Pythagorean identities, to be able to do these problems.  Here's another one. I have cos4t minus sin4t, over sin2t, is equal to cot2t minus 1. So, I'm going to start with this side here,  and I'm going to start by factoring the difference of two squares here, since fourth powers are also squares.  And so, when I do that, I'll get cos2t plus sin2t, times cos2t minus sin2t, and that's all divided by sin2t.  Now, I look and see here, I have cos2t plus sin2t, and I know that that is simply equal to 1.  So, I have 1 times cos2t minus sin2t. So, this is going to be equal to cos2t minus sin2t, all over sin2t,  using my Pythagorean identity that says that this is 1. So, 1 times this is just it itself.  Now, let's see, I look over here, I want cot2t minus 1. Well, if I take this sin2 that divides this numerator,  and divide each term in the numerator by it, I'll have what I'm looking for, cos2t over sin2t, minus sin2t over sin2t.  And look what I've got here, cos2t over sin2t, that is cot2t minus sin2t over sin2t is 1.  So, I've done the same thing here. I've succeeded in changing this side into this side,  using just trigonometric identities and a little bit of algebra. So, I've proved this identity. 