 As your environment grows in complexity, it becomes more and more challenging to detect and respond to security threats.  Development and operations teams are increasingly responsible for securing their own services against a vast array of threats,  but they may not have time or expertise to do so.  At the same time, security teams that do have the expertise often struggle to keep up to speed with the ever-changing state of dynamic, cloud-native environments.  That's why we developed Datadog Security Monitoring.  Built on our Without Limits platform, security monitoring lets you detect threats in real-time across the full stream of ingested data,  without the cost of indexing and retaining everything.  Security monitoring leverages hundreds of integrations to give you full visibility into every layer of your production environment.  This means everyone in your organization has access to detailed observability data – logs, metrics, traces, and more –  providing a single pane of glass to investigate security threats.  Datadog provides turnkey detection rules to flag attacker techniques and misconfigurations so that you immediately improve your security posture.  And thanks to our simple editor, anyone on your team can customize detection rules or even write their own without needing to learn a proprietary query language.  For example, this rule detects a potential account takeover by looking for multiple failed login attempts, followed by a successful one.  When a rule triggers – because of an attack, a misconfiguration, or a threat intelligence match – Datadog creates a security signal.  Datadog retains all these signals for 15 months so that you can correlate them and identify trends over time.  You can quickly filter signals using attributes like severity level, the MITRE attack technique, or any associated entity, such as the attacker's IP.  Viewing a signal provides the context needed to triage it quickly.  You can check the timeline of the attack, see whether it's still ongoing, and even review actual events that triggered the signal.  And because these events are enriched at intake, you can answer questions like,  what country is the attack coming from, to help determine whether to kick off a response.  During the investigation, you can seamlessly pivot to any other part of Datadog, like infrastructure metrics or process monitoring.  With Datadog Security Monitoring, you can now detect potential threats by leveraging all of the observability data generated by your dynamic environment.  And with one unified platform, everyone in your organization can work together to secure your infrastructure and applications.  Start a free trial of Datadog Security Monitoring today at datadog.com. 