 Welcome to this meditation where we will practice working with whatever comes up.  We will focus on themes of accepting, allowing, not holding on to or pushing  away experiences. Feel free to sit or make your way to lying down, whatever  makes the most sense for you.  Allow your eyes to close gently or let them gaze in a soft, unfocused way. Begin  to tune into your experience in the present moment. Notice the movement of  the breath and the general sensations in the body.  Observe the sensation of touch or pressure where your body makes contact with the surface  that supports you.  Notice what thoughts and emotions are here.  Now bring your awareness to the breath as it moves in and out of the body. Feel the  sensations of slight stretching as the abdomen rises with each in-breath and of  gentle release as it falls with each out-breath.  Follow the sensations of breathing wherever it's easiest for you to notice  them.  There is no need to try and control the breathing. Simply let your body breathe  on its own.  Let your breath be an anchor into the here and now.  In mindfulness meditation practices, we often invite you to notice when the mind  wanders away and to gently escort it back to awareness of the breath, body, or  sounds. Now we will explore a different way to respond. As we do this, please  remember that you always have a choice about how far you want to take the  activity, and please stay within your comfort zone. For the next little while,  whenever a thought or feeling arises, if you wish, allow it to remain in the field  of your awareness. Acknowledge whatever comes up, whether it's pleasant, neutral,  or unpleasant.  And then shift your attention to the body and see if you can notice any  physical sensations that have come with the thought or feeling. Move your  attention to the part of the body where these sensations are strongest.  You can imagine breathing into this region and breathing out from this  region. Not trying to change the sensations, but trying to see them more  clearly.  See if you are able to notice and turn towards any feelings that arise in your  body, whether pleasant, neutral, or unpleasant. Just be with them. Deliberately  focus your attention on the region where the sensations are strongest, welcoming  and embracing what's there.  You might find it helpful to breathe into that part of the body. Observe the  sensations and their intensity shift from moment to moment.  If what you are noticing feels unpleasant, you might try deepening the  attitude of acceptance and openness. You can say to yourself from time to time,  it's here now. It's okay to feel this. Whatever it is, it's here. Let me be open  to it.  Remember that by saying it's okay, you are not saying that everything is fine or  judging what happened, but simply helping your awareness to remain open to the  sensations in your body.  See if it is possible to stay with this awareness.  Breathing with these bodily sensations. Accepting whatever comes up.  Letting them be just as they are.  Letting them be just as they are.  Accepting whatever comes up.  Letting them be just as they are.  You 