 So your boss has assigned you a project and asked you to develop a project  management plan and show it to him tomorrow and you're confused. You don't  know where to start. You have no clue what it means to plan a project. My name  is Edward Shihab and I'm going to show you 14 steps that you should take in  planning out your project. Stay tuned.  Welcome back. I'm going to show you in this video 14 steps you could take in  order for you to plan out your project. Step number one. You need to find out  what it is that your boss wanted. Now we're going to be referring to your boss  as the project sponsor. They're the one who asked you to do this. It doesn't mean  they have to fund it themselves but they are the sponsor of the project or the  champion. There are different names that we use for this. So they asked you to run  a project or manage a project. Is it to fix a problem? Is there something wrong  that needs to be corrected? What does the outcome look like? What does it look like  right now? You're going to need to find this information out. If it's if it's an  opportunity that they're trying to capture then what does the end result  look like? What is it that they're trying to gain? What is the physical  outcome that they would like to see? Ask your boss if they've seen something like  this before. If they have some sort of a blueprint of what this product looks  like, ask them to show you any documentation about this one project or  the product of the project. Find out if there was a business case that you  should be reviewing or a feasibility study that was done. Is it a statement of  work? Is it a contract? Is it a strategic mandate? Find out what information exists  and take it home and read it or read it in the office if you can't take it home.  So that was step number one. Step number two, develop a project charter. A project  charter is sometimes called a project initiation document or a project brief  and it stands for a one-page or two-page document that includes all of the high  level objectives of the project. Things such as why are we running the project,  like the justification, what is the end product, how much time are we going to  have on it, how much is the budget, are there any key dependencies, are we making  any assumptions, who are the key stakeholders in the organization that  will support you on it, are there some key milestones that they're looking to  achieve. Now once you have the charter prepared what you want to do is you want  to review this with your sponsor, your boss, and have them go over it and if  they're okay with it let them sign it. Ask them to please sign that one  document and if they can they should also send out an email to all of the top  department managers and let them know that this project has been initiated and  that you are going to be the project manager on that. That gives you  credibility for you to go around talking to different people and asking questions  and asking to review some documents or existing processes. All right so now  you've been assigned, you've got all the details, you've developed a project  charter and the next thing that you need to do is step number three. You need to  start identifying the stakeholders. What is the stakeholder? A stakeholder is  anyone who has anything to do with this one project. They're either going to be  positively or negatively affected by this one project or they are going to  either they're probably going to be positively or negatively affecting your  project. So either they're affected or they can affect this one project. They  could be a decision maker, a regulator, a contributor, a technical resource, a  department head, a supplier, anyone who is going to have anything to do with this  one project is a stakeholder. You should try to identify your stakeholders from  the inside out, from the people who are going to be working on developing the  product of the project all the way out to the organization and outside to your  customers or suppliers or representative of that. Once you've identified your  stakeholders, go to step number four. Start preparing your project management  plan. Guess what? Project management plans do not get developed in one day. They  take time. You got to meet with all the different stakeholders and talk to them,  understand how they feel about the project, how they feel about the end  product. Do they have anything to contribute? Are there any restrictions? Are  there things you need to find out? Are there regulations you should consider? So  project management plan means that you probably sometimes have to have a team  to help you with this and you have to spend a few days up to a few weeks to  get all the necessary details for you to put together a final plan.  So tell your boss the plan cannot be developed in one day and that you got to  talk to everybody involved for you to be able to understand what's going to go  into this one plan. So starting the plan is just one thing and you're going to  have a lot of subsidiary plans that are going to go into this project management  plan. So now let's go into step number five. From your stakeholder list that you  made, that you've identified, you need to start collecting requirements from those  stakeholders. So a requirement, in case you're wondering, is either a condition  or a capability. A condition means it's something that is put as a constraint on  your project. It's a beginning and or an end date, a specific budget that you  can't go over, a compliance requirement. For example, working hours requirements,  resource utilization requirements, whatever it is, language requirements, you  know, language requirements can actually be a capability. But these conditions are  not going to be showing in the final product, in the looks of the product. What  we'll show will be the capability and the capability, the capability  requirements. Those are the ones that talk about what the product does, right?  So does it go 500 rotations per minute? Is it eight feet tall? Is it made out of  plastic? So these are the descriptive items of your final product. So you want  the conditions and you want the capabilities and these will be your  requirements. Once you've collected all of these requirements, oh, before we go too  far, make sure you include quality and safety requirements and communication  requirements and resource requirements. These are all part of the requirements.  Don't just focus on the final product, the physical product. Think about what it  takes and what it takes to actually manage this one project and  these are called project requirements. So we have the product requirements, that's  what the product needs to have for specifications and we have the project  requirements or project management requirements, which could be resources  you need, research that you have to do, meetings that you got to run and so on.  So these are your project management requirements. Collect all of these  requirements and go to the next step, which is step number six and that's to  develop your scope statement. Your scope statement is an expansion or let's say  an expanded project charter. It has a little bit more. So if you basically, if  you took your project charter and you took your requirements and you added  them together, you're going to get the scope statement. The scope statement  talks about what the end product is that you're going to be delivering and what  else you're delivering with that. Are you delivering some coaching training? Are  you delivering some technical manuals along with it? What are you going to hand  over? And those tend to be bulletized in the scope statement. The scope statement  can be turned in with the list of requirements in order to make it more  clear. In the scope statement, we also write what is excluded. If you think  your customer or your sponsor is going to imagine some end product having some  additional specifications that you have not planned for, then be very clear that  these are not, state them in the exclusions, that these are not part of  the scope deliverables. So that's your scope statement and that's step number  six. Once you have your scope statement and let's say you review it with your  sponsor and your sponsor is okay with it, it is time to plan out how this is  going to be executed. And that takes us to step number seven, which is to create  your work breakdown structure. The work breakdown structure, called sometimes  just the WBS, is similar to an organizational chart. You're taking  all of the work and you're breaking it down into smaller pieces. So you could  break it down by the nature of the work. A WBS represents all of the work that is  going to be delivered, but it is broken down into smaller, tinier pieces that  makes it easier to manage. So after you do your WBS, you go to step number eight.  Step number eight is to look for what resources will be required. For every one  of these WBS work packages, underneath there's going to be activities that will  need to be done to deliver that one package. So if your team is going to be  working on that one package, what activities are they going to be doing? So  typically what I would do, what most projects do, is that every piece is  assigned to a team lead who then has their own resources or team that would  be doing the activities for that one task. And by the way, you probably would  have to go to department heads and negotiate for these resources and make  sure they give you the better ones, not the ones that were happy to just dump on  you, right? And then, you know, probably count them, you know, as a relief  budget-wise. Make sure you get all the good people and ask for how many hours  they can allocate to your project so that you know from the beginning whether  you need to get some additional contractors on the project or not. If  it's a contractor, then the contractor will tell you what sorts of activities  they will be doing. They have their own team or resources that will be working  on it. So step number eight looks at the resource requirements for that one  project. So once you figure your resources out, then let's go to step  number nine. Step number nine is to develop your project schedule. Now  project schedules are pretty common and, you know, I've seen varieties of these.  The very, very basic form can be developed in Excel, but Excel isn't as  versatile and does not allow you to make changes easily and doesn't show the  connections between activities. The best way to do it is using, you know,  software like Microsoft Project or Primavera and this way you can use bar  charts. You may want to look at a different video on how to develop  schedules, but you got to develop your schedule by taking all the activities  that were previously identified by your team or by the contractor and try to  sequence them back-to-back with durations, with dependencies, understand  which one needs to wait for the other, understand which activity can run at the  same time as the other, validate the time estimate that they're using for these,  ask them, you know, the basis for their estimates, where did they get them, is it  based on experience or is it based on being, you know, maybe pessimistic, but  find out where the estimates are coming from and try to develop, put all the  activities and proper sequencing, overlap the ones that you can so they can run at  the same time and then that would also clarify the resources that you're going  to require. So once we've identified how long the project takes, now we need to  review it with the sponsor and make sure they're fine with it. A lot of times they  will ask you to simplify it or make it shorter and so what you have to do is  look for opportunities for you to overlap or what we call fast track, fast  track some of these activities, overlap them, run them at the same time, that's  going to increase your risk a little bit and then look at adding maybe resources  in some places which we call crashing and or maybe look at the working hours,  overtime, and so on or maybe look at, you know, building efficiency in the team or  using better tools for them to get things done and that's going to speed up  your project, alright? Look at putting leads where you can have something start  and not really wait for something else to be finished if you can, right? And if  there are lags or waiting periods that are unnecessary, remove those, remove any  buffers or any padding you've put for, you know, for risk into that project so  that you can reduce the duration of that one project. Once you have a schedule  that your boss is okay with, then it's time to develop the project budget. You  do know the resources that we're working on it, you do know the resources will  tell you what sorts of materials they'll be using on the project, all you need is  cost estimates for the resources and for the materials and you can have your  budget. You can even figure out what you'll be spending weekly, monthly,  quarterly if you want and that's going to help you develop your cash flow  analysis. It's mostly going to be cash going out and but you're going to figure  out what it is that you need for money to fund this one project and you can ask,  you can develop a funding schedule for your management so they know how much to  fund you every quarter or every month if that's how they're going to be funding  the project and they would know what to expect going down the line. All right, the  schedule and the budget and the scope, the requirements, all these that we've  talked about can later be used to monitor your project and see how your  project is going. Having a good plan means you have something you can use to  monitor your project. Once you have your budget, that was step number 10, now let's  go to step number 11. Step number 11 has to do with asking yourself what could go  wrong on this one project. Now we're talking about risks. What are the risks  in your project? What could go wrong on your project? With all these plans that  we have, we've identified the stakeholders and we know some of them can  be troublesome. We've identified requirements. We've put together a scope  statement. We've, you know, created work packages. We've started thinking about  outsourcing some of the work. We have a schedule. We know the resources that will  be working on it. We know the budgets that have been estimated. What can go  wrong on that one project? All right, so sit with your team and try to figure out  what could go wrong and then once you have a list of all the things that could  go wrong, the risks, then go to step number 12. Mitigate those risks. What does  it mean to mitigate? Find ways to reduce the chance that a risk can happen or to  reduce the effect if the risk actually happens. Look at the probability that a  risk can happen and the impact it would have on your project objectives. If it's  not going to affect your project objectives, it is not a risk. Okay, so you  need to have a clear understanding of what the project objectives are and then  look for the things that could affect them and look for ways to mitigate them.  There are four ways to mitigate risks, right? You could avoid the risk by taking  it out from your project. So a certain software presents a problem for you. You  think it might not be, it might not integrate well, so take that software out  and now you've avoided that one risk, but you might introduce a secondary risk  that way, right? If you can't avoid the risk, then look at transferring the risk,  which means outsourcing or buying insurance, if that's a possibility. If you  can't transfer the risk, then look at mitigating the risk or reducing the  probability or impact of the risk happening. Adding additional resources,  taking additional training, double-checking, improving your quality  processes, that will mitigate the risk a little bit, but that's all going to come  at a cost. Let's say you could not avoid, you could not transfer, you could not  mitigate the risk, then you may want to consider accepting the risk, all right?  You could accept and put a budget, you could accept, you know, a contingency  budget or you could accept and do nothing about it because there's nothing  you can really do about the risk. So that was step number 12, you're developing  your mitigation plan. Step number 13 is to update your project management plan  with all these mitigation actions. You want to make your project management  plan, your scope, your budget, your schedule, your requirements, you want to  make them more likely to succeed and so you're going to change  them using the mitigation actions that you came up with. So if you thought you're  going to eliminate some software from the program, fine, eliminate it. Now your  plan does not have it. If you thought you're going to have additional two  resources or maybe someone who's more senior on your project, then do that. Now  your project is safer, it has someone who's more skilled and can do the  project for you. So your mitigation actions need to be added into your  project management plan and modified. And once you have the modified project  management plan, we go to the final step, step number 14, sit with your boss and  review the updated plan. We go through the whole thing, tell them who you talked  with, tell them about the requirements you collected, tell them about what scope  you've included and excluded, show them who's going to be, what part of the  project is going to be outsourced in the WBS, show them, talk to them, you know,  tell them who the resources will be, what sort of a schedule you've  developed, your final schedule, and talk to them about the budget requirements, how  much they need to fund you on a periodic basis, what were the risks that you've  identified, what actions you've taken to mitigate them, who participated in this  risk mitigation process, and then the final project plan. And it includes all  of your project baselines. A baseline is an agreed-to part of the plan and we  usually talk about the scope baseline, the schedule baseline, and the cost  baseline, right? Within the scope baseline you could also include quality baseline,  right? These are the ones that you want to agree to with your boss. Your boss  looks at your plan, says everything is good, I love what you did, and you say  all right, can you just sign off on this? Once they sign off, then your baselines  have been signed off. And that was step number 14. All right, so now what you have  is a fully developed plan and your boss has agreed to it. The next step after  this will be to go to execution, but that's for a different video. So I hope  you enjoyed these 14 steps that I gave you in planning out your project. If you  want to know more, if you have any specific concern, talk to me. I am an  expert in project management. I'll be happy to respond to you. Put your  comments down below. If you like this video, please subscribe. And if you know  others who can benefit from this video, please share. While you're subscribing,  please like this video. Make sure you hit the notification bell so you can be  notified about new videos that will be released. I'll be releasing additional  videos on all of the, you know, additional details about the 14 steps, the charter,  identifying stakeholders, collecting requirements. There's already one on  collecting requirements, but you know, I'll be talking about the WBS, the scope,  the critical path, schedules, budgets, risk management. So if you want to be  notified about additional videos that I will be releasing, then please subscribe  and hit that notification button. All right, well that's all for now and I hope  to see you on the next video. 