 Okay, so this is what we just discussed now towards action system and social interaction  where he is actually introducing action system.  What is, what do you mean by constellation of action?  The constellation of action forms the action system and the different parts of any system  is what he actually described here.  And now we are going to theory of social action.  So what we need is, we need a definition first obviously and this definition something which  is given by Parson which you can directly take.  This is very, very complicated one consisting of plurality of individual actors interacting  with each other in a situation which has at least a physical or environmental aspect.  Actors who are motivated in terms of tendency to optimization of gratification and whose  relation to their situation including each other is defined in terms of a system of culturally  structured and shared symbols.  You can mug it up, you can reproduce the same, I will explain this anyway.  But the same definition is what I have written like this in a different language that will  be much better for you to write because that will actually tell the examiner about the  conceptual clarity.  So let me explain what is this definition first.  So let us define social system now, that is the most important part.  So he defines social system like this.  So there will be social action, that is what we did first.  Actions never occur in isolation but in constellation and that is what you mean by action system.  So here I am just talking about the action part now.  So there is action.  Now any action, there will be some kind of reciprocity.  So action means it should be oriented towards other person, mostly it has to be oriented  towards other person, the conditions you have seen already.  So here I am not talking about what exactly is action, what are the conditions of actions  or anything.  You know what you mean by action, we have discussed it, any act consciously performed  as social action and then there are four conditions, all those things that we know, I am not getting  into that.  Now here there is an action and this action is oriented towards other person.  That means it is oriented towards other person and is in a state of mutual reciprocity.  That means the other person is also responding.  Like I am here and you are at the other end.  So I am doing an action, that means it is oriented towards you and you are also responding  to this action.  That means what?  It is in a state of mutual reciprocity.  You got this much?  So action is oriented towards other person and is in a state of mutual reciprocity.  Means I am taking an action which is oriented towards you and you are responding to that  action.  That means there is a mutual reciprocity.  So if this is there, this will lead to social interaction.  So he first defined what is social action and now from social action he is going further  to describe what is social interaction.  What is social?  It is very simple.  Action, it should be oriented towards other person and the other person is also responding.  What does that mean?  Between two people there is an interaction.  If the other person is not responding, will there be any interaction?  If your action is not oriented towards other person, will there be any interaction?  No.  So there is nothing difficult in this.  You are doing an action to other person.  The other person is listening to that and responding to that.  That is when mutual reciprocity.  Mutual reciprocity means both are doing something in that similar context.  So action oriented towards other person and is in a state of mutual reciprocity will lead  to social interaction.  I hope this much is very clear.  And this social interaction will result into a system, social system, if it satisfies certain  conditions.  So interacting individuals should have some common goals and there should be some, motivation  means goal.  Goal and motivation is one and the same almost.  So let us not get into, let us not separate it.  So goals, there should be common goal.  Do we have common goal?  Yes, we have common goal.  So the social interaction, will it lead to social system?  Two more conditions we have to see.  There should be some norms and values which has to be followed.  And there should be an abstract boundary around them.  Now what do you mean by this boundary?  This is not a physical boundary.  That's what the word which is used here, abstract boundary.  It could be a boundary at the mental level.  Do we have a boundary here?  Yes, we have hardly this many students who are sitting here, 37-40 students.  So that means there is a boundary that we have created, whether it is in terms of the  username or the password or whatever it is.  Otherwise, anybody can get into this and that will lead to a lot of chaos and issues.  So here we have created a boundary.  Now tell me guys, is this social interaction, can it become social system?  Yes.  Why?  All the conditions are satisfied.  The goals are there, which is common for both of us that we want to score good in sociology.  And then are we following the norms and values?  Yes.  Are we creating a boundary around us?  So this is a close group around us, whether it is a WhatsApp group or this class sessions  or whatever it is, which is based on a certain kind of boundary.  So this is what the definition of social system that I want you to write.  Now this is something which is derived out of that Parsons actual definition.  But if you can remember, if you can mug it up, see hardly you have few definitions only.  If you can mug it up, you go with that.  Even after explaining that, you can still further describe this level also.  So let me show you this definition there.  So according to Parsons, actions are oriented towards others and are in a state of mutual  reciprocity.  Social interaction takes place.  So now we are at the level of interaction.  Now this interaction will result into a system if the interacting individuals are mediated  by some common goals.  So do we have those common goals?  Yes.  And then norms and values?  Yes.  Do we have abstract boundary around them?  Yes.  Now the definition, this is something which is up to you.  If you can mug it up, you can do that, consisting of plurality of individual actors.  That means more, one actor is not enough, because interaction is required.  So it has to be plurality of individual actors, simply indicating this point only.  Interacting with each other.  So he is talking about interaction here.  In a situation which has at least a physical or environmental aspect, it should be in a  social situation, actors who are motivated in terms of tendency to optimization of gratification.  Guys, can any one of you tell me what does this mean?  You are motivated in terms of tendency to optimization of gratification.  What is that from this?  It is nothing but the goals, the tendency to optimization of gratification as your goals  and whose relation to their situation including each other is defined and mediated in terms  of a system of culturally structured and shared symbols.  What does this mean?  It is nothing but the norms and values.  So the same definition is what I have given in a simplified form.  You can write this.  And if you can remember, you can write this also.  There is absolutely, there is no necessity that you need to mug it up exactly like this.  But those who can do it, do it.  Now some conditions.  This is very easy directly from the definition only.  There should be some interaction between two or more individual that is necessary for any  system to exist.  And the interaction should take place in a social situation having a discrete physical  or environmental aspect.  And there are certain collective goals which are shared by the members.  Guys, goals occupy a prominent position, a very important position when it comes to Parsons  analysis.  Parsons always give importance to goals.  And the members must be motivated to participate.  It develop a set of common values or consensus on role expectation which is influenced by  motivation of individual and norms and values of society.  I hope you are very clear about this point.  This is what we have explained in the last session.  Role expectation, role definition, we discussed this when we discussed about pattern variable.  So what is the problem with respect to role?  When it will come?  When there is a dilemma.  What is the reason for dilemma?  With respect to your choice for motivation and values of society.  So this role expectation will definitely be influenced by motivation and value.  In a traditional society, it will be value side.  In a modern society, it will be inclined or influenced more by motivation side.  All these we have, guys, whatever we have explained in the previous sessions only you  are coming across here.  Actually there is nothing special or new here.  And there should be an abstract boundary.  And what is this boundary?  It should be in terms of symbols or which makes it distinct from others.  We created a group.  How many members are there?  Around 150 members are there in our WhatsApp group.  So that is a very closed group.  And this many are attending the classes.  So which is again a very closed group.  Why?  We have created some kind of abstract boundary and only we can participate in this.  So will this contribute a system?  This class?  Yes.  Why?  Because there are many factors.  There is interaction, which is in a social situation.  And there is a collective goal.  We are motivated to participate.  And there is a role expectation, very clear role expectation is there in terms of what  I do and what you do.  And there is an abstract boundary around this.  So now this is the definition part, which is very important.  That is why I spent some time in the definition.  So any doubt with respect to any question from this definition?  Because we are going for the two most important parts now, that is mechanism equilibrium phase  and the AGL model.  So here, there is a definition.  So now, after giving the definition, this is not enough for Parson.  What he is looking for is, now he wants to develop a functional theory, in fact, a grand  functional theory, which can explain not only social system, but all system.  So he has given this theory in two phases.  The first is, he actually addressed two questions, I would say.  He addressed two questions in this theory.  One question is the maintenance of the system.  Guys, how we maintain the system, how we are able to take classes, how we are able to attend  these classes, how the finance is coming, how the technology is coming, how the norms  and values are shaped up, how the tension is managed, and how all these things are maintained.  Because the system needs to survive, there are certain things which need to be taken  care of.  And how the system is surviving, we are here, we are attending this class for, I think,  it's been two months, right?  So how we survived for this two months, how we are doing that in the system.  Similarly, if you take any system, how the system is surviving or how the system is maintained,  that is one important question that you need to address.  That is what he is going to do in the first part of the theory.  And the functions fulfilled by a particular system.  What are the functions which is done?  And he will address these two questions in two parts.  So this theory will have two parts.  The first part, obviously addressing this question, and the second part will be addressing  this question.  And the name of these two parts are like this, moving equilibrium phase.  In fact, it is mechanism equilibrium phase.  But sometimes you will see in the question paper, they're asking you a question moving  equilibrium, it is the same.  The first phase is mechanism equilibrium phase, which explain how the system is survived.  And then there is something called as requisite functionalism phase, where he is talking about  the famous AGIL model.  So these two parts are two questions which he addressed.  And these are two questions that the examiner can ask you also.  What is moving equilibrium or the mechanism equilibrium phase?  And what is the requisite functionalism phase or AGIL?  So these are the two phases, mechanism equilibrium phase and the requisite functionalism phase.  So let me first explain this mechanism equilibrium phase.  So what he is trying to do over there, he is just trying to see how the system is surviving.  What he is telling us, now just look into this diagram only, things will be very clear  with that.  So there are some mechanisms.  Let us talk about society guys.  So let us talk about society and let us explain how society is surviving.  And society is a system.  Yes or no?  Do you have any confusion whether society is a system or not?  Society is having plurality of individual actors, they are interacting, so there is  a common goal, motivation and all those things and everything, boundary and everything is  there.  So society is actually a system.  So there are mechanisms, mechanisms could be anything, it could be legal system, it  could be political system, it could be economic system, there are different mechanisms.  So these mechanisms, what is their role?  They fulfill certain needs, that means they have certain role to perform and they perform  that role and they fulfill that role, that means they fulfill the needs.  And once they perform their duty, what will happen?  It will bring society in an equilibrium.  So we all will live in a very good system, in an equilibrium system.  Now what will happen is, after some time, some disturbance can come, this equilibrium  can break.  Now what is the situation in which the equilibrium can break?  That will be addressed separately in another theory, another part, that is what you call  a cybernetic hierarchy of control, where I will explain how this equilibrium will be  broken.  So here, temporarily you just need to see that equilibrium will be broken at some situation,  that means there will be some disturbance, I just write it as disturbance.  Disturbance means disequilibrium or the equilibrium will be broken.  Then what will happen is, there will be a feedback which will be given to mechanisms,  so they will act again and they will fulfill the needs and they will bring back the equilibrium.  So let us say there are more crimes are coming, so what will happen?  The feedback will be given, so the police system, judicial system, etc. will be getting  active and fulfill the needs and bring the equilibrium, like that.  So the disturbance here is temporary.  Now if you compare it with Marx, the disturbance are permanent, so the solution is revolution.  Here that is not the case.  It is a temporary disturbance with the feedback which the system will give can solve the problem  within itself.  So the mechanism, let us see the system, traditional society, joint family, which was based on  joint family.  Joint family fulfilled the needs of the feudal setup, feudal way of life and the traditional  setup and there was an equilibrium.  But when the capitalist setup came or the industries came, now what is required, joint  family will not be enough, so there is a change to nuclear family.  So nuclear family now fulfilled the needs which is required for the system and bring  back the new equilibrium.  So the new equilibrium now based on nuclear family and when it proceeds further, it will  be live in relation, it could be single parent family also, so that change, similarly this  technology development, IT or this cyber advancements and everything, so more cyber crimes are coming,  the same example, cyber crimes are coming.  So what will happen?  Then the feedback coming, so more and more cyber laws will be coming and then fulfill  the needs and will tackle the problems and will bring back the equilibrium.  And then normal system will continue.  So how the system is maintained?  The system is maintained like this.  So this is what you mean by moving equilibrium.  Why it is moving equilibrium?  Equilibrium keep on moving, every day we are in a new equilibrium, every day we have some  temporary problems, every day it keep on solving with the mechanisms and every day we are in  a new equilibrium.  This COVID came, what happened, it was a disequilibrium, disturbance, then the feedback is given, the  new mechanisms, whether it is vaccines or sanitizers or the mask or everything, then  fulfill the needs and bring back the new equilibrium.  Now we are in a new normal, new equilibrium, which we have never seen before.  So this is the first part.  Then the second part is AGL, but before that, let me show you this PDF.  So mechanism equilibrium phase, initially Parson emphasized on identifying different  mechanisms which helped in maintaining the equilibrium in society.  Equilibrium is a dynamic one that a society keep on changing, but it always remain in  an equilibrium.  Specific mechanisms helps in maintaining the equilibrium by providing feedback to other  mechanism which operates to restore the equilibrium if there is any disturbance occurred.  Guys, I hope this is pretty clear to all of you, though there are mechanisms, fulfill  the needs, bring equilibrium, if there is a disturbance, there will be feedback which  is given and fulfill the needs, bring the equilibrium.  Now how this disturbance is coming, which need to be explained with the help of something  which we are going to learn towards the end, that is cybernetic hierarchy of control.  So as of now, we do not want to discuss that.  So the next is requisite functionalism phase, here is where we need to discuss about this  AGL model and drawing all these diagrams and everything.  So the next is the requisite functionalism phase.  Now guys, let me tell you one thing, we have discussed about specific mechanisms which  are going to fulfill the needs.  So how many mechanisms will be there?  One, two, three, see family will be one mechanism, laws will be legal system, the judiciary,  the police system, religion may be one mechanism.  So n number of thousands and thousands of mechanisms will be there.  Now what Parson says is, these specific mechanisms are nothing but full, so what is the role  of this mechanisms?  Fulfill certain needs, certain needs means certain requirements.  So these thousands of mechanisms are fulfilling certain needs which is very necessary for  the survival of the system to bring the system in an equilibrium.  So the mechanisms fulfill the needs.  Now what Parson says is, these mechanisms are fulfilling four vital functions only and  these are the four functional requisites which need to be fulfilled for any system to survive.  I repeat, for any system to survive, there are four vital requirements.  Any system, be it this class or any system, there are four vital requirements, there are  four vital functional requisites and all what the specific mechanisms are doing is nothing  but fulfilling these four vital functions or these four vital functional requisites.  So this fulfillment of certain needs means what?  Fulfillment of four most important functional requirements.  For any system to survive, four most important functional requisites are there which is nothing  but this AGIL, adaptation, goal attainment, integration and latency.  When we go further, you will understand everything. 