 Hey guys, David here, and welcome to this video. 3D printers are great. You can print a whole bunch  of stuff and there are millions of models already available on platforms like Thingiverse and many  others. But just printing models that other people made kind of gets old after a while.  So you do want to create your own 3D models, but which software should you use?  So in this video, I'm going to compare some of the most popular options that are really  well suited for 3D printing and that are also all conveniently free, at least in the version  that we're going to use them. Now, the loyal followers of this channel might think they're  having deja vu, but it's not new. I actually have made similar videos like this one before,  but the last one is over two years ago and even me just watching that video, I get super cringed  out and it really is not that great. So I'm going to try to make this video a lot better and I'll  also put in some other programs that I haven't previously mentioned that might have come up newer  or that other programs have been updated since I made the video. So I think it is well warranted  to have another video. I also want to give a big thanks to Endurance Lasers for sponsoring this  video. They offer a wide variety of lasers that you can attach to your 3D printer or CNC router  machine or whatever you already have and easily convert them into a CNC laser engraver and even  cutter. They have a whole range of different power outputs depending on what you need and since the  helices are all diode based, they're super easy to set up and control. So if you want to learn  more about Endurance Lasers, make sure to check out the link in the description. So now, since  it's not much use just talking about the programs, we're actually going to go over to the computer  and I'm going to show you with a screen capture what these programs are like and what the pros  and cons are. So here we are inside of our first contester. It's Tinkercad. I've previously already  featured it and it still is by far just the easiest CAD program to learn. All you gotta do  is find the shape you want here on the side. Let's say we want something that is somewhat rectangular  then we can just start off with the box, drag it here into the scene and resize it to the size that  we need it. Let's say we need a little bit bigger but not as tall, only four millimeters thick and  then what we need is a cylindrical hole in here. Then either we can already take the hole here or  we can even start off with a cylinder, put it here and oh we don't want a solid cylinder, we actually  want it to be a hole. So we use the hole here, resize it to the size we want and here we then  already have a hole inside of this plate. Now you also have even more shapes. There's a whole bunch  of stuff here that is available. If you want to add maybe some character, you want to add  this astrobot into here, add a second one or oh we didn't want a second one, let's just delete it.  It's just super easy to get around and once you save it and export it, it's already ready to print  since it's all saved in stl files. So if you just want to get something very simple done or you  maybe want your kids to get into 3d modeling then you really can't go wrong with Tinkercad.  But if you want just a bit more granular control than in Tinkercad and a bit more features maybe  then let's move on to the second program that I'm going to show you. Here we are inside of Sketchup  and it actually used to be a desktop program but now Sketchup is also available inside of  your browser which just makes it even more easy and you don't have to install anything.  Now there is a pro version of Sketchup that does cost some money but for just simple projects the  free version is more than enough. Here on the left we have our tool panel where we can choose  what we want to do. Let's start off with a rectangular sketch here. Let's do it on the  bottom here. This gives us our sketch and then we can also, we could add even more detail to it  but let's just take this sketch and extrude it, give it some height. Let's say right about here  and then we maybe want to add some holes into it just like before. We can just create another  sketch here with all the holes that we want and then we can use this tool again and maybe  this is actually not what I wanted to do but we can then just simply like that create a hole into  our part here and if you want more than that you can of course there are more features available.  You can also use this other sidebar here where you can do things like change the color of it. Let's  say here we take the gray paint bucket and then we can paint it gray. There's also a whole  components warehouse. Well let's say we want to add some bolts to this. We just search for bolt  here and then it gives us a whole list of different things. There are actually 2400  pages just for bolts so you might want to specify it a bit more but let's say we want this one we  just download it real quick and add it in here and we already have the bolts inside of the model now.  Now it's of course way too big but we can easily fix that by scaling it up.  So as you can see it is super easy to get started here in Sketchup  and you can also get into a lot more complicated things as you do have a bit more features than  inside of Tinkercad where it is limited to the basic shapes. Here you can create basically  anything. There's arcs and whatnot and all the different features that you could want.  You can however notice that a lot of the features inside of Sketchup are more targeted towards  architectural design since that is what Sketchup was originally designed to do.  So let's take a look at a different program that is really designed to create parts and  more mechanical designs. Here we have Onshape. Now Onshape is really quite popular  and they have gone through a couple of different acquisitions but it still is the same program.  Now there is a slight caveat. While as a hobbyist you get all the features of Onshape  completely for free you are required to automatically share all your designs as  open source. Now for some of you that might not be a big deal. If you just want to design a new  knob for the kitchen cabinet you really probably don't care if this design is open source or not.  But if you only use the CAD programs to maybe create some designs for your business or something  then maybe all your designs automatically being shared under an open source license is  not the best thing. And once you want to buy Onshape it is actually kind of expensive.  So I'm just gonna quickly go over it. It works quite a bit different than the previous ones as  it is fully parametric. And if you have never heard of parametric design then let me just  quickly show you that here on the side you basically have your timeline. All the different  things that were done are available here. First we started out with this simple sketch  that we created and then we extruded it. And then we went on to a different sketch which we also  extruded to create this other shape here. And then with some more sketches we created these holes.  And these fillets and all these are separate steps. But what the really cool thing is now that  we just don't just see all the things here but we can actually go into let's say this fillet.  And oh maybe it was kind of a bit too big so let's decrease it to five millimeters. And  click the green button and it all dynamically updates. So no matter how much more things  you've added to it you can go even as far back as your very first sketch. Go in here and maybe  let's say this dimension actually should have been 62. So you change it to 62 and it all dynamically  updates. And this is really just extremely powerful and can save you hours upon hours of  time just redoing steps because you needed to change some dimensions or there is just something  else that you forgot or have to change. There also are just a plethora of different  things that you can do. You can of course add chamfers, do extrudes, you can add ribs to support,  you can also work with sheet metal and make joints and all that good stuff. So it really is a  very professional program that you can easily design a machine inside of this program  and go on to manufacturing it. But still it is just kind of limited in its free version. So I'm  going to show you a different program that I actually use all the time. It's my main program  and that is Fusion 360. It has a lot of similarities to Onshape as it is also fully parametric but it  is not browser-based. It's actually downloaded and it also is free but it actually is free for  hobbyists and also even startups. As long as you make I think below a hundred thousand a year you  can get a free hobbyist license for this program. Now they do change it all the time how exactly you  have to go about it but I believe last I checked you had to download the free trial and then  somewhere up here click something and find the small button that gives you access to the hobbyist  license. But don't worry guys it's not gone even though it might not be featured as prominently  anymore on their website. So here's just a simple part that I actually used very recently. It's a  little part that I 3d printed that I used to transfer some balls screw nuts and here we have  the timeline here in the bottom. So I started off with just a simple cylinder and then added some  threads to it and then later I rounded over some of the parts here and then added the holes into it  and here I can once again could easily here go to have all the bodies here and if I had sketches  I could also easily edit those. And I just wanted to quickly show you what happens if you have a bit  of a more complicated project. Here is my CNC conversion project and as you can see this is  quite a complex program. I have a whole bunch of different bodies here. I also have like animated  hinges here. I can move all the stuff around here and it's just really really powerful and it's  actually kind of easy to get started. You do have to watch a couple tutorials but once you get the  hang of it it's not that bad. And even here I could go back into every single step and just  change the little settings and modify the design however I choose. Think just a quick look over here  we of course have all the functions that you want like extrude, revolve, sweeps, lofts,  trading ribs. You can also then of course modify them in every way that you wanted.  And here we also have different workspaces. The design workspace is where you do your 3d modeling  but you can also render your things. You can create animations like those beautiful exploding  shots of your machine or whatever is all possible within here. You can even do simulations where you  find out where the stress points are and how much strength you need to add. Stuff like that.  And then in the end you can just simply export it to your 3d printer and you can even send it  directly to cura and other 3d printing software. Or if you want to manufacture your design some  other way you can easily create drawings and even these drawings update them and dynamically. If I  change some dimensions inside of the design that affect this drawing then this drawing will also  be updated. That's just the power of parametric design for you. But while fusion 360 is a dedicated  program on your computer all the data is still saved in the cloud and I know that some of you  might have an issue with that. Also you aren't guaranteed to always have free access to it.  The free hobbyist license is always renew for one year only so you never know if maybe next year you  can't get a free license anymore and you can't really access your designs anymore. If you are  worried about that then the answer to your worries is FreeCAD. It's basically the open source CAD  that can do everything. There are a million different workspaces in here from just simple  modeling to 2d sketches. You can do spreadsheets with complicated design changes in it. You can  even create toolpaths for CNC milling or within this program. Now it is quite a handful to learn  and it does have some particular ways that it needs to be used which may be a bit higher of  a learning curve than the previously mentioned programs but once you get a hang of it it's a  really great program. And yet again here we have the design history here basically  where we can just go into the sketch for this pocket here we can extend this let's say  let's say we want to make this pocket longer here  update and close and as you can see the pocket is now longer and the design is dynamically updated.  In regards to time I won't go into too much more detail on the particular ways that you can use it  in the feature set it basically is very similar to Fusion 360 and actually does have some workspaces  that are different programs when you go with Autodesk. These were the main programs that I  wanted to feature but I also have some kind of more honorable mentions. For example if we go  back to browser-based programs we have selfcat here. Now the free definition is kind of sketchy  here since while you can create all the models for free if you actually want to download the  model and an STL or something you do have to pay your monthly subscription which is like 15 bucks  a month. It's not that expensive actually for 3d modeling programs but the other reason why I wanted  to feature this program is while it is a very powerful program and has a lot of features it is  not parametric and that's not a bad thing it's just a very different way of working.  Here instead of creating sketches and then basing all your designs on that  we are you can easily deform these you can twist all of these designs and  you can also directly edit the individual points. I could easily just move this individual point  here I can select this individual point and then move it around and modify my design in this way.  There also is a sculpting workspace where I can actually use sculpting brushes to modify my design.  I have to maybe choose one that makes actually makes sense here  and as you can see I'm like smoothing over this corner and this way you can actually  really create some organic looking models which is really hard with the previously mentioned  programs. They all basically allow you to create geometric designs very easily but as soon as you  want something that is organic that has curves and maybe three-dimensional smooth surfaces  it really just gets hard. You couldn't design a mannequin that has some really organic looking  features inside of Fusion 360. Well there is always a way but it would be a lot harder than  inside a program like selfcat here. And the last honorable mention that I want to give is OpenSCAD.  It is once again extremely different than all the programs mentioned as in that you don't move  anything in the graphical user interface. It's all co-based. Basically if you want a cube you just  write a cube and then the parameters the size that where you want it positioned and that way  you can also create designs that are very very parametric. It is just a very different way of  working and probably not the fastest unless you have some very specific use cases where this is  the ideal program. So I hope you found a program in the list that I just showed you that fits what  you want to do and if you have other programs that you love and I haven't mentioned since I  can not mention all of them. There are way too many out there. Make sure to leave them down in  the comments so that other people reading the comments have the possibility to find even more  options if they didn't find something in this list. So make sure to like, comment and subscribe  and also share this video to all the people that you think might be interested in this topic.  You can't always rely on the YouTube algorithm to serve the video to the people that are actually  interested in the topic. So by you sharing the video you help me out a great deal and hopefully  also the other people that can see the video. So thanks for watching and until next time! 