 Hello and welcome to another episode of Coffee Fusion.  This week we're going to look at cappuccinos, flat whites and lattes.  So guys, this is one of those age old questions,  how do you make a flat white, a latte or a cappuccino?  And I get it all the time in comments,  but I've never really done a video specifically for it.  So I thought rather than answering it every time, I'd create a video.  Now, starting off, guys,  these are all milk based espresso drinks and they're all made standard  with one shot and then topped up with milk in a regular sized cup or glass.  And so really there isn't going to be much difference in taste,  except for perhaps if you serve your lattes in a glass and they're a different  size volume to the cups that you serve your flat whites and cappuccinos in.  Obviously, those two vessels,  whichever one is smaller is going to taste a little bit stronger  because there'll be less milk compared to the shot of coffee.  And the bigger one is going to taste a little bit weaker.  But there are slight differences in the coffee.  So let's have a bit of a look and break it down.  First off, we have the flat white.  And for a flat white,  traditionally you just want about half a centimetre of froth on the top.  And it's not really frothy milk.  It's more about just sealing in the crema on the top of your flat white.  So you get that nice taste when you take your first sip.  It also presents a lot nicer.  Now, the good rule of thumb here, if you when you're texturing your milk,  if you add about half a centimetre to a centimetre of air in the jug,  you should be able to pour that to be half a centimetre in the cup.  Now, a latte is fairly similar to a flat white.  Perhaps if anything, it has a little bit more frothy milk,  maybe a centimetre or so.  And quite often with an Australian release,  it's served in a different vessel in a glass.  But if the only difference is the the cup or the glass that it's served in,  then there isn't much difference in terms of taste.  But if anything, when you texturing the milk for a latte,  you want to make sure there's at least a centimetre of textured milk in that jug  so that when you pour it, there is about a centimetre on top.  And it's a bit more of a creamy kind of mouthfeel with that extra textured milk.  Lastly, guys, we have the cappuccino,  and this is the coffee of the three that's changed the most over the years.  It used to be that the cappuccino was third.  So one third espresso, one third milk and one third foam.  We've gone away from that dry style cappuccino.  If you have over frothy milk, then it's kind of meringue on top.  And when you go to pour it,  it kind of separates and you're not drinking this one silky  beverage, you're drinking kind of froth and milk underneath.  So whilst the old cappuccino did have this mountain of froth on top,  these days we kind of stick to about a centimetre and a half.  And if anything, in the specialty coffee industry, it's shrinking more and more.  Now, in Australia, we serve our cappuccinos with chocolate on top of the froth.  So if you want to pour some latte art,  you can dust that chocolate into the shot itself before you start pouring.  So  there you go, guys, you might have thought there was a big  difference in all of these coffees and you didn't have a clue on how to make any  of them. But really, there isn't that much difference between the three coffees at  all. They are all a single shot base and topped up with milk with a slightly  different amount of textured milk on top.  And it's for that reason that you see a lot  of cafes these days dropping the whole flat white latte and cappuccino and just  going on their menu as would you like a white coffee or a black coffee?  But of course, at the end of the day, it's what the customer wants.  So if they want that extra frothy cappuccino with lots of chocolate,  you make it the way they like it and you'll have a customer for life.  Thanks so much for watching this video, guys.  I hope you learned something from it.  If you did, just click that like button.  That really helps me.  And if this is your first Coffee Fusion  video and you haven't heard anything about the Coffee Fusion community before,  make sure you join in so you can subscribe, so you can watch the videos every week.  And there's also at the Coffee Fusion on Instagram.  There's the Facebook page you can find and there's Coffee Fusion on Snapchat.  And just while we're on Snapchat,  if you're watching this video on the day of release, I'm just about to go down to  the roastery so you can add Coffee Fusion on Snapchat and have a look what's  happening down there. Thanks so much, guys.  If you have a coffee related question  that you want answered, just put it in the comments below.  If I've already done the video, I'll show you where it is.  Otherwise, I'll make that video for you.  As I was saying, quite a lot of people have asked for this one over the years,  so I thought I'd get it down there.  Remember, if you want to support the Coffee Fusion community,  make sure you grab your next bag of coffee from the roastery.  It really helps me to produce these videos  if I can make some money doing the other stuff.  Thanks so much, guys.  And I'll see you on Thursday for another Latte Art compilation. 