 These tips will help you when drawing an accurate perspective drawing as well as  sketching a quick sketch from observation and getting the proportions right.  Hey there Linescapers! Getting a perspective drawing right might seem  hard at first but with just a very few simple tricks you can improve your  perspective drawings a lot. Okay so here are five tips on how to draw perspective.  First one is the most basic and simple one, tip number one, the horizon line.  Always start a sketch with the horizon line. What is the horizon line? It's a  horizontal line running through a view that marks your eye height. That means  that everything that is on the horizon line is as tall as you, everything that's  below the horizon line is shorter than you and everything that's above the  horizon line is taller than you. Keep that in mind. Tip number two, the heads of  all people in an eye height perspective are on the horizon line. No matter how  far away the people are standing from you the heads will always lie on the  horizon and the body will extend underneath it. Why? Because the horizon  represents the eye height and most grown-ups are roughly as tall as you.  To create a feeling of space we can draw figures of different sizes with their  heads on the horizon. If the figure is smaller it doesn't mean it's shorter but  it's standing further away from us. Of course there are exceptions. Children are  below the horizon line and most basketball players would reach above the  horizon line. Tip number three, use people to determine proportions in a  sketch. Let's draw a person standing somewhere in space with his or her head  on the horizon like we just learned. Let's call the person Charlie. Charlie is  going to be our basic size unit. Everything and everyone that is standing  next to our Charlie is reaching downwards from the horizon the same  length Charlie is. That means it's standing the same distance away from us.  Because of that we can use Charlie to determine the height of all the objects  in that distance. So let's say we want to draw a five meters high lamp post. If  Charlie is roughly 1.7 meter tall then you would fit three times that size unit  into five meters. Voila! We draw a five meter of free Charlie tall lamp post  correctly in perspective. You can also apply this principle to widths. If you  transfer Charlie's height to the ground you get a width of 1.7 meters. You can use  it for example to draw a 3.5 meter wide path which would be roughly to Charlie's  height. Tip number four. All lines that are parallel in space like the edges of  a road or a row of houses converge at one point on the horizon. That point is  called the vanishing point. Keeping this in mind will help you when drawing in  perspective. If you're about to draw a building for example extend the bottom  edge all the way towards the horizon. Where it hits the horizon is the  vanishing point. Every other element that is parallel to this line would also hit  that vanishing point if you extended it towards the horizon. Like the top of the  building, the windows, the road next to it and so on. We think these tips are very  valuable so it would mean a lot to us if you share this videos with your friends  who might also find these tips helpful. Final tip, tip number five. We'll finish  with rather good yet simple one to remember. You could probably figure it  out by yourselves but it's one of the most common ones that you do in  perspectives. Exactly. All the tree trunks expand above the horizon line. Think  about it. Tree crowns are always so high that people can pass underneath and if  the horizon line is one person high the tree crown should start well above it.  You can check out for more explanations in our other videos on perspective. We'll  link them below. We have one more thing for you. If you want to carry these  practical tips around with you now there's a possibility to do so and it's  called our new Cardscapes. Since many of you have been asking us for tips in  simple image version and we yet have to write a book. We will one day. We created  Cardscapes with simple tips on drawing, perspective, landscapes and so on. You can  put the printed version in your sketchbook when going out drawing or  upload a PDF on your phone. You can check them out through the link below. So have  fun, keep on drawing and see you next time. Bye!  These are Cardscapes and they will make your life easier by just having them.  Yeah you don't even need to look at them just have them just get them and you  know. It's like a lucky charm or what? It's like a lucky charm. You basically your  pants were better. Are you serious? Let's flip the table. They're definitely table flipping  material. 