 And now we get to what's probably the most difficult part of this lesson, the  plant life cycle, which is called the alternation of generations. Now what do I  mean by an alternation of generations? Well first let me ask you to remember  the animal life cycle. What are we animals? Are we mostly diploid or haploid?  Well hopefully you're thinking diploid. Yes, animals are  multicellular diploid organisms. And I'm using the abbreviation 2M to stand for  diploid. Do we have any haploid cells in our bodies? Yes, we have the gametes. Our  gametes are the only haploid cells. Plants, they alternate. They alternate  between a multicellular diploid stage called the sporophyte and a  multicellular haploid stage called the gametophyte. So let's now look at it in  more detail. First let's take the animal life cycle. So we start out as a  multicellular diploid organism. Special cells within this organism undergo  meiosis. And what does meiosis produce? That's right, gametes, the haploid gametes.  And you have both female and male gametes which will unite in  fertilization to produce the diploid zygote. And then the zygote divides by  mitosis into a baby and eventually the adult. And you make a new multicellular  diploid organism which can begin this life cycle all over again. Now let's look  at plants. So the plant multicellular diploid stage is the sporophyte. Just  like in animals, certain special cells can undergo meiosis. But this time meiosis  produces haploid spores, not gametes. What is the difference? So both gametes and  spores are haploid, but how are they different? Well, once you make gametes, can  they divide again? No. Once gametes are made, they're done. Spores, on the other  hand, they can divide again. So spores will divide by mitosis to produce the  multicellular haploid gametophyte stage. Now special cells within the gametophyte  will become the gametes. And just like in animals, you have female gametes and  male gametes and they will unite through fertilization to produce a diploid  zygote. Then that zygote divides by mitosis to make a new multicellular  diploid sporophyte. So you can see the plant life cycle is a lot longer, has a lot more  steps, but certain things are in common. And hopefully that will help you  remember it. Now, as you're looking at it, you might be thinking, well, but what  exactly is the gametophyte and what is the sporophyte? When I look at a plant,  what am I seeing? Well, it depends on the type of plant. If you're looking at moss,  most of the green moss is actually the gametophyte. But right now, we're focusing  on flowering plants, on the angiosperms. In angiosperms, when you look at them,  when you look at a tulip or a tree or a rose, what you're seeing is the sporophyte,  the multicellular diploid stage. Most of the gametophyte is just not visible to the  human eye. So here's a diagram of the angiosperm life cycle. So this flower that  you're looking at is the sporophyte. The gametophyte, we have one of them is the  pollen grain. So the pollen grain is the male gametophyte. And then something  called the embryo sac in the ovules is the female gametophyte. So the embryo sac  is the female gametophyte. The pollen grain is the male gametophyte. Most of  the plant is the sporophyte. So let's look at the development of the male  and female gametophytes in more detail. So do you remember the name of the male  reproductive organ? It's the stamen. So here's a close-up of a stamen. The top  part of it is called the anther. And inside the anther is where you get the  development of the pollen grains. And here's a microscope image of a pollen  grain. So within the anther are multiple special cells which undergo meiosis.  Don't worry about the name of these cells. Meiosis produces what? That's right,  the spores. So you get the development of the male spores. Then the spores can  undergo mitosis. And mitosis produces the male gametophyte which is the pollen  grain. Pollen grain is composed of just three cells. It's not much but it's still  considered a multicellular gametophyte. So these cells are one tube cell and  two sperm. So this is the male gametophyte, the pollen grain. And what's kind of weird  about it is the two sperm are actually inside the tube cell. So here's the tube  cell that forms the outer part of the pollen. And here's its tube cell nucleus.  And here you can see the two sperm nuclei. Now let's go on to the female  gametophyte. So what is the name of the female reproductive organ? It's the  carpal. So here in the middle of the flower is the carpal. The bottom part of  the carpal is called the ovary. And inside the ovary are one or more ovules.  And in the ovules is where you get the development of the female gametophyte.  So a special cell inside the ovule will undergo meiosis. Meiosis produces the  haploid spores. And this time we're dealing with the female spores. And spores  can undergo mitosis. And there's several mitotic divisions to give you a  multicellular female gametophyte which is called the embryo sac.  And here's a close-up of the embryo sac. So it's found inside the ovule. So here  in the light blue is the outer part of the ovule. And within the ovule is the  female gametophyte, the embryo sac. There's a bunch of cells here. At this  point you don't need to remember all of them. I'd like you to focus on a couple  of them. The egg cell. This is clearly important. Here's the egg. You can see it  right there in yellow. And then here in the middle are two polar nuclei. And  these are part of what's called the central cell. So the central cell is a  little weird. It has two nuclei. And then here on one end is the egg cell. And  here's an opening to the ovule. In this opening, this is where the sperm is  going to enter to be able to fertilize the egg. So now we've made the pollen  grain and the embryo sac. Through some pollination method, the pollen is  delivered to the carpal. And what happens next? So just to remind you, the  carpal is made up of the top stigma, a stalk which can be short or long, called  the stile, an ovary, and inside the ovary are one or more ovules. The pollen  lands on the stigma. The pollen, as a little reminder, is composed of a tube  cell with its own nucleus and two sperm inside. To deliver the sperm to the egg,  the tube cell begins to form a tube. So this nucleus actually directs the  elongation of the cell. So the cell gradually elongates and it begins to grow  as this tube. So here the tube grows through the stigma, through the stile,  through the ovary, and eventually goes towards one of the ovules and delivers  the sperm to the egg. And you can see the pollen tube growing and penetrating  through that little opening in the ovule to deliver the sperm. Now here's just  pictures of it happening with pollen that had been genetically engineered to  be fluorescent. So here hundreds and hundreds of pollen tubes are growing  through the ovary and delivering the sperm to the ovules. So here's a pollen  tube growing along an ovule and delivering the sperm. The pollen tube has  to interact with the maternal tissues for its growth. If you think about it, it's  kind of gross. The pollen tube actually penetrates and grows through the  maternal tissues, but that's what happens. So just a little bit more here is the  stigma and the pollen grain lands on the stigma and then has to grow through it.  And here you can see it in this image. The pollen grows through this tissue that  you can see here in red. And this red tissue is called the transmitting tract.  The transmitting tract allows the pollen to grow through it. Inside it are lots of  nutrients. For a cell to be able to grow, to elongate, it needs energy. So the  transmitting tract provides the energy for the pollen tubes to grow. And it also  provides signaling molecules. Cell signaling needs to occur here for the  pollen to know where the ovules are. The ovules need to be signaling to the  pollen, telling it, come over here. I'm here. Bring the sperm right here. And  here's just a stain that stains specifically for pollen tubes so you can  see them growing through the ovary. So I wanted to talk a little bit about  cell signaling because it's one of your AP Biology enduring understandings. The  idea that cells do communicate with each other. In this case, the ovary  communicates with the pollen tube as well as the embryo sac is sending out a  signal. And here they did a really interesting experiment with cell  signaling. So they isolated an ovule and allowed three pollen tubes to grow  towards the ovule. The asterisk is where that opening in the ovule is where  they need to get to. Now right here, the green pollen tube penetrated first. It  won the race. It got to the ovule first. As soon as it does, the other pollen  tubes change their path. They start growing away from the opening. So here  you see the green one went inside, but the pink and the red are growing now  away. They need to go and find another ovule. So this is really similar to  actually what happens in animals. Even though in animal fertilization there's  no pollen tubes, animals also have a method to make sure that the egg gets  fertilized by only one sperm. As soon as the sperm fuses with the egg, no other  sperm can enter. So this is similar here. As soon as one pollen tube enters the  egg, the embryo sac sends out a signal to tell the other pollen tubes to grow  away from it. And now what happens if something goes wrong with this signal?  So here in this picture, these two are the normal. You have a microscope image.  This is the ovule and here's that little opening. They're marking it with an  arrow and an M. And in yellow, they colored in the pollen tube and it's  growing towards the opening and it goes into the opening. See, it doesn't seem  to be lost or confused at all. It's taking a direct path right to the  opening. That suggests to us that there's a signal telling it where to go.  But things can go wrong. So when this signaling is disrupted, in this case,  here in these pictures, these four, they have a mutant. And in this mutant,  the signaling has been disrupted and the pollen tubes cannot find the signal.  You can see the pollen tube is growing towards the ovule, but doesn't go inside,  keeps growing. And here, same thing, keeps growing. The green one sort of turns  around. They don't know how to find the embryo sac. And this is a very serious  condition because now the plant cannot reproduce. And remember, evolutionary  fitness is measured by your ability to reproduce and pass on your genes,  which would not happen in this particular mutant. 