 If you use a desktop PC or laptop in 2020, the chances are you're either using Windows 10,  macOS or maybe one of the many Linux distros that are out there.  But despite what many people believe, there are actually more choices out there than just  the main three operating systems. And in this video, we'll be taking a look at 12  amazingly alternative operating systems that you can use today.  Now the first OS on our list is actually one of the most interesting operating systems that  we'll be talking about. Haiku came out of a revolutionary computer and OS that was born  in the early 90s. Originally designed for a platform called the BBOX, BOS was an operating  system that threw out the years of legacy code and backwards compatibility of macOS and Windows  and focused on delivering fast multimedia features. Despite being a very robust and  efficient platform and even at one point looking like it could be the next operating system for  the Mac before Apple did a deal with Steve Jobs' next computers company, BOS failed to  generate a significant market share and copyrights were sold to Palm in 2001. Several projects used  parts of the BOS code after but Haiku is a fully open source re-implementation of BOS that aims to  bring the operating system, its concepts and ideas into the 21st century. And it retains  backwards compatibility with BOS programs. Development has been somewhat slow with work  starting in 2001 and the current version, Beta 1, having been released in September 2018.  But as it stands, it's a fun and usable operating system and it's completely free.  One of the main criticisms of Windows over the years has been that it's a closed source  operating system and controlled by just Microsoft. ReactOS aims to change that.  Work started just after the release of Windows 95 and the aim is to eventually have a drop-in  replacement open source operating system that can fully replace Windows. Their mission statement  on their website says, the main goal of the ReactOS project is to provide an operating system  which is binary compatible with Windows, such that people accustomed to the familiar user  interface of Windows would find using ReactOS straightforward. The ultimate goal of ReactOS  is to allow you to remove Windows and install ReactOS without the end user noticing the change.  After 21 years of development, it is still considered alpha software that is currently  feature incomplete. But today, you will find that a lot of Windows software will work just fine  within ReactOS. Friend realizes a vision that many industry leaders had, including Steve Jobs.  He was talking about this back in the 90s, a time when hardware would no longer be important  and users wouldn't have to worry about things such as updating their own systems,  and it could all be taken care of on a server. Friend is an open source cloud-based operating  system that can be accessed on any device that has a modern web browser, and brings them into a new  concept called Sky Computing. Applications, documents, file systems, and the GUI all run  within a tab in your browser via the Friend workspace, an HTML5 and JavaScript-based user  interface, meaning it can be run on any device from a smartphone to a high-end workstation.  Interestingly, Friend also borrows some desktop and file system concepts from AmigaOS  and the Tripos portable operating system that was born at Cambridge University and ran on the  Cambridge Distributed Computing System. Now a little disclaimer, I have been involved in the  Friend project for a few years now, but if you'd like to try it out for yourself, you can sign up  for a free online account or download the source code and run your own server by heading to their  website friendos.com. Standing for Atari running on any machine, Arunim is actually a virtual machine  similar to something like VirtualBox or VMware that's designed to run operating systems designed  for the Atari ST and Falcon line of retro computers. This does include the native Atari TOS  and also newer third-party operating systems like Freemint, Magic, and the Motorola 68k distros of  Linux. They do state that it's not meant to be an emulator for the Atari machines, even though it  does have a pretty high compatibility rate with classic applications and even contains the Falcon  custom chips in software. The latest release came out in 2017 and can be downloaded as a free live  CD image from GitHub, which boots on a small Linux core, which means it should work with pretty much  any PC. Anyone who went to school in Britain in the early to mid 90s will probably be familiar  with this next operating system. RISC OS started life on Acorn's range of Archimedes computers,  which were the standard computer platform in the British education sector until the mid to late 90s.  First released in 1987, it was designed to be the native operating system of the then new ARM  chipset, and yes that is the same ARM platform that's in your smartphone today. Acorn were often  referred to as the British Apple and they were a very innovative company, giving lots of British  kids their first taste of computers with the Acorn BBC Micro. RISC OS shipped with all Acorn  ARM-based machines from 1987 to 1998. When Acorn exited the personal computer market and renamed  themselves to Element 14, RISC OS was forked into different projects and companies. The open source  version, maintained by the RISC OS open team, is available for several modern ARM platforms,  but it was a release a few years ago on the popular Raspberry Pi platform that really reinvigorated  mainstream interest in RISC OS. And if you've got a Raspberry Pi and you'd like to try it out,  it is part of the Pi Noobs installer, or you can get an image from their official website.  MorphOS is the first of the updated Amiga-influenced operating systems on this list.  Originally intended to be a new version of the Amiga OS, written for the then new PowerPC  architecture. MorphOS updates many of the Amiga's best features for the 21st century,  and also retains compatibility with many legacy applications.  The OS originally ran on classic Amiga computers with PowerPC accelerator cards,  but today it can also run on standalone PowerPC platforms, such as older PowerPC Macs. So if  you've got a spare Mac Mini G4 or a PowerMac G5 kicking around, it can really breathe new life  into those systems. Now it should be noted that MorphOS is a paid for operating system, but you  can download a live CD and run a 30 minute time demo to try it out. Future development of MorphOS  includes it being ported to modern x64 hardware. Once upon a time, in the late 1980s, Windows had  a competitor which many believed could go on to become the new default OS for PCs. The team who  gave us the original hardware and software for the PC platform, Microsoft and IBM, teamed up to  release Operating System 2, or OS2, as it was abbreviated. Very soon, seeing it as a competitor  to their Windows 3.1 platform, Microsoft dropped out, leaving OS2 in the hands of IBM. It added  some very nice features for the time, and by the time OS2 Warp was released in 1995, it offered  excellent compatibility with DOS and Windows 3.1. In fact, it was often referred to as a better DOS  than DOS, and a better Windows than Windows. After an estimated $990 million being spent per year on  development, OS2 just couldn't topple the Microsoft dominance, and at its peak, it never reached higher  than a 5% market share of PC operating systems. Despite finding uses in embedded applications,  such as cache machines, OS2 was phased out by IBM in the mid-2000s. Step forward to 2017,  and finally, a new OS2-derived operating system arrived called ArcaOS. This is a closed-source  commercial operating system that brings OS2 into the modern age. It can run legacy 16 and 32-bit  OS2 applications, 16-bit Windows apps, DOS programs, and lots more, plus bringing modern benefits such  as big hard disk support, multi-core support, and huge amounts of RAM. But this is really designed  for companies who are tied to legacy OS2 applications, and want a more modern way of  continuing to use those systems without starting over. But from what I've read on forums, it does  have fans in longtime OS2 users as well. AROS, the AROS Research Operating System, or originally  the Amiga Research Operating System, or Amiga Replacement Operating System, is a free open-source  update of the Amiga OS designed for multiple platforms. Starting life back in 1995, the goal  was to create a free, more modern replacement for the Commodore Amiga Workbench 3.1. And today,  AROS can be installed on many platforms, including standard PCs, Macs, there are ARM versions for  systems like the Raspberry Pi, and even a port to the classic 68K Amiga. The Icarus desktop build  of AROS has lots of useful pre-bundled programs and settings all in place, and you can actually  run it from a live image. Solaris is a Unix-based operating system that dates back to 1992.  Originally developed by the mighty Sun Microsystems to replace their earlier Sun OS,  Sun were acquired by Oracle in 2010, and the operating system continues to this day.  Now despite a few years as an open-source project under Sun, when they forked Solaris into the  OpenSolaris project, Oracle discontinued this, essentially turning Solaris back into a  closed-source commercial product. The open-source code went on to be developed into a Solaris-based  OS called Illumos. The main Solaris OS is now up to version 11.4, and supports the Spark architecture  as well as standard x86 and 64 machines. Before there was Linux, there was Minix,  a Unix-like operating system designed for use on microcomputers. Originally started in 1987,  it has been ported to pretty much any platform you can think of, including standard PCs,  the Atari ST, Classic Macs, Spark Stations, Amiga, ARM, and lots more. Minix has been free  and open-source since the year 2000, and the current version stands at 3.0.  Our third and final Amiga-inspired operating system on the list is AmigaOS 4.1. Now this is  a proprietary commercial operating system designed for custom PowerPC machines, and based on the  classic AmigaOS 3.1 from Commodore. Development started on AmigaOS 4 in the early 2000s,  as a way to bring the Amiga operating system to the more powerful PowerPC platform, with the  latest version being released in 2016. It retains an updated version of the Amiga Workbench as its  user interface, and brings with it many modern features such as network updating, support for  more modern graphic cards, and higher RAM and disk capabilities than the old Commodore version.  Versions of AmigaOS 4 are available for custom Amiga 1 hardware, and a version for classic  Amiga machines with PowerPC accelerators, and this version can also be run under the WinUAE  emulation platform. The last and possibly most bizarre operating system on the list  is TempleOS. A free public domain 64-bit operating system, this was designed by Terry  Davis. Now Terry was a programmer who worked on VAC systems after graduating from Arizona State  University, and he got his start by learning 6510 assembly on the Commodore 64. Terry grew  up as a Catholic, and in the mid-1990s he began experiencing some manic episodes, eventually  leading to a diagnosis of schizophrenia. TempleOS is a very lightweight biblical-themed operating  system, and Terry claimed the design of it was instructed to him by God himself. The user  interface is very reminiscent of 80s systems with a 640x480 16-color display. Terry claimed  that the limited resolution was to make it easier for children to draw illustrations for God.  Terry passed away after being hit by a train in 2018, but the OS in its finished state can still  be downloaded today. It is a very bizarre insight into the workings of his mind, but looking at it,  it is also an impressive feat that this entire project was created by one person.  If you'd like to download and try any of these operating systems, I will put more information  in the video description. And if you've enjoyed this video, you might want to check out my weekly  Retro Gaming and Technology podcast, available every Friday from Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google,  wherever you normally get your podcasts from, or you can download it directly from our website  at theretrohour.com. And while you're on YouTube, why not check out a few more of my videos and  maybe hit that subscribe button. I'll see you in the next one. 