 Hey guys, and welcome to an after-school study with me.  Before I actually started studying, I first put on some chill music to help me get into  the mood of studying, since on the day when I filmed this, I wasn't really motivated  to do anything, but I had a lot of work that had to get done.  I also prepared all the supplies and essentials I'd need during my study session, and put  everything I wouldn't need away to keep my environment as clean as possible.  In the voiceover of this video, I'll be talking about exactly what I'm working on and what  I'm studying, and most importantly, I'll be sharing a bit more about my life as a student,  since a lot of you guys get the false idea that I'm the perfect student, I'm super organized  and on top of things all the time, and I really wish that was true, but it isn't, so I decided  to share a bit more about my life to make sure that you guys don't get a false idea  like that.  So in this clip, I'm working on a project from my technical drawing class, and in case  anybody's new to this channel and doesn't know, I'm currently studying web design and  development, and one of the main subjects I'm taking this semester is called technical  drawing.  And at first, I honestly thought this would be a complete nightmare.  I spoke to some friends who had taken this class in the past, and they told me some things  about this class that made me completely freak out.  Basically they told me that this class was super time-consuming, that you had to pay  extreme attention to little details, and it was kind of annoying and weird, and also you  had to redo designs and projects until you got them right.  So at first I thought I would completely hate this class, but turns out that I love it,  and I don't even know why, but I actually like this class, and I'm low-key sad that  I won't be taking it next semester, which is so weird.  Okay, so I rambled on too much about technical drawing, and now we're actually studying economics.  So on the day when I filmed this, I actually had a test for economics the next day, and  it was a really important test.  Our teacher gave us materials to study as well as practice questions a week before the  test, but guess what I did for an entire week before the test?  If you said nothing, then you're absolutely right, because I didn't do anything to study  for the test.  I was really chill about it.  I was like, you know, it's not a big deal, whatever, and then I suddenly remembered that  the grade that I would get on that test would be my midterm grade for economics, and that's  when your girl completely panicked, and, you know, it was just, it was just a mess.  So in order to study for the test, I went ahead and reread all of the materials and  notes and everything I had regarding economics, and I also highlighted as well as underlined  the most important information.  Most of you guys know that I'm a visual learner, so highlighting and underlining things really  does help me during studying, but here's the thing.  I was so panicked that I didn't even think about the fact that rereading notes isn't  an active study technique.  If any of you guys ever have to revise for a test or cram for an exam in a very short  amount of time, try to pick more active study techniques instead of more passive ones.  Highlighting and underlining or rereading is a very passive study method, so I definitely  should have picked something like flashcards or mind maps, but I was so freaked out and  I was panicking so hard I didn't even think about that.  And on this note, I know it seems kind of ironic, but try to study for important tests  or quizzes a week before the test or even a few days before that, just not the night  before, because you are 110% going to be stressed and that's obviously going to work against you.  After studying economics for quite some time, I decided to move on to another subject to  change things up because I was getting really tired and bored and I started working on geography.  So my geography course this year is a mixture of ecology, landscape design.  It's just like a weird mix of pretty much everything that is a tiny bit related to geography.  It's kind of weird.  But anyways, in this clip, I'm working on a geography research paper.  Our teacher wanted us to find all the information on the internet about a particular topic and  then we had to go through it and delete all the boring parts until we had about three  or four pages of information left.  I guess she knew that if we deleted all of the boring parts in the research paper, there  would be nothing left except for the title, so there's that, but that's beside the point.  Right now, I'm going through the first draft of the research paper and deleting the extremely  boring stuff and then I went ahead and formatted the document just to make it look a bit more  presentable and finally, I decided to add a few images and pictures just to make things  a bit more interesting and visually appealing.  By the way, I'm using Microsoft Word to do all this.  It is my go-to text editor for essays, research papers, and stuff like that, but a lot of  people have been telling me that I should try Apple Pages, I think it's called, or Google  Docs instead since Microsoft Word is honestly quite slow on my MacBook and also on my iMac.  It's just really slow on all Macs, I guess.  So if you guys are using Google Docs or Apple Pages and you think it's great, let me know  in the comments down below so I know that I should really give those a try.  Once my very tedious geography research paper was printed out and was out of the way, I  decided to go back to doing economics, but this time I did practice questions instead  and I'm really glad I did those.  First of all, because doing practice questions is a really active and great revision technique  and also because similar questions to the ones I'm practicing right now ended up being  on the test and that was really great.  So since you've made this far into the video, I might as well tell you exactly what happened  with my economics test.  So I took the test during fourth period and I was honestly exhausted, so I thought I was  completely doomed, but somehow I ended up doing pretty well.  I think it was a miracle, I don't know.  A few times I guessed the answer and I was right, so I got pretty lucky on this test.  Not cramming again for economics, definitely, but you know, it was quite an experience that  I'm glad I shared with you guys.  At this point it was getting pretty late, way past my bedtime, but I decided to do some  more studying before I went to bed.  I had to read this book about visual storytelling and I was actually excited about that since  I was genuinely interested in the subject, but honestly, the book wasn't as good as I  had expected it to be, not to say it was bad or anything, but I guess I just had higher  expectations.  Also, I was super excited about this because usually I have to get a physical copy of the  book in order to annotate it, but this time we were provided with a PDF version of the  book and I prefer annotating digitally over doing it on paper, so that made me really  happy.  So, I first went ahead and highlighted as well as underlined the most important information  and then I used the text callout feature to add any comments or notes to specific paragraphs  or sentences and finally I used the sticky notes feature for longer comments.  I love this feature because you're able to add longer comments and a lot of information,  but it doesn't take up too much space.  Basically, how it works is you click on it and then it displays all the information.  Also, in case anybody's wondering, I'm using PDFelement to do all this, it is my go-to  app whenever working with PDF documents.  I am working with them for today's video, but even if I wasn't, I'd still use this app  because it has every feature you could possibly need when editing and annotating PDF documents  and also I love it so much because the interface is minimalistic and really easy to use.  Basically, I think it's amazing and I think you guys should give it a try as well.  You can start your free trial with the link in the description box and if you decide to  subscribe you'll get a 50% off discount, which is an exclusive sale PDFelement is providing  just for you guys to make the app more affordable and accessible to you.  So, if you have to work, edit, and annotate PDF documents a lot, definitely give this a try.  I'm sure you're going to love it.  But anyways, at this point I had been studying for quite some time, way more than I usually do,  so I decided to wrap up the studying for the day, which brings me to the question of the day.  Let me know in the comments down below how long do you typically spend on studying on a daily basis.  So, I spend about like two or three hours, maybe more, I don't exactly track the time,  but that number definitely goes up during exam season.  Otherwise, I'll get horrible grades on all my exams.  Also, let me know in the comments down below if you guys would want to see more study with me videos.  They are a lot easier to film and edit than normal traditional videos that I do on my channel  about study tips and stuff like that.  So, if you want to see more, we can make this a weekly thing,  where maybe I do one bonus video every week or whenever I have the time that is a study with me.  So, if I know that it gives you study inspiration, I'll be more than happy to do it.  So, just give me some feedback in the comments down below.  Also, I'd really appreciate it if you subscribed, if you're new here, and turned on your notifications,  as well as rated this video with a like or a dislike to let me know how you felt about it.  And the final plug in today's video.  If you want to see extra content from me, then come follow me over on Instagram.  On there, I post exclusive photos, videos, stories, polls, pretty much everything you can think of.  And also, it's the best place to contact me if you guys want to chat with me.  So, come say hey if you want to or don't if you don't want to.  Regardless, have an amazing day and I'll see you super soon in another video.  Bye!  🎵 