 All right, in this video, we're going to be providing just a kind of brief walkthrough  of this concept of business ethics and talk briefly through some of the different things  that influence business ethics within an organization.  So to start us off, what is business ethics?  The best way that I can describe business ethics is it simply represents the what we  would call principles and standards that determine acceptable conduct in business.  And these principles and standards are really important because in a business setting, we  need to be able to understand what are the essential rules of the game, so to speak,  and what is going to be acceptable versus unacceptable behavior.  Now when we think about business ethics, a lot of times we think about our own individual  ethics, right?  We think about our own individual beliefs about what is right and what is wrong.  In this, while there is some degree of consistency between person to person, right, we have established  laws around things that we view as a society that is something that is particularly unethical,  there can be varying degrees of what is considered to be okay from person to person.  Now the challenge is within a business context is you have a significant motivation for making  sure that your employees act in an ethical manner because there are huge downsides associated  with engaging in unethical behavior.  And we've seen huge examples of this, for example, Wells Fargo opening fake accounts  or incentivizing folks to open fake accounts for a variety of different reasons, but as  a way to kind of attain certain monetary type bonuses.  So when we're thinking about what impacts business ethics, we usually think about three  things, three specific factors that are going to have an influence on business ethics.  Now what I do want to emphasize is individually, each one of these isn't going to entirely  sway a particular decision and affect the extent to which people engage in good ethical  behavior, but these are the three factors that are going to have an impact on the decisions  that we make within an organization.  Now the first one and one that we've kind of already explored to an extent is going  to be the individual standards and values or individuals, standards and values.  And we as individuals, we bring with us our own past history in a variety of different  things that shape the extent to which we think certain things are acceptable or unacceptable.  And that can be everything from our upbringing in the kind of family context in which we 