 There's a charming Irish lady with a rogue in twinning way who has kept my heart a-thumpin'  and a-jumpin' night and day. She's a flower truck in army with a temporary smile. She's  the best that ever came from heaven's isle. And I find myself a-singing all the while.  Sweet Dahlia, I want to stay here. Sweet Dahlia, I love you so. I'll be a zombie of  God if you'll be my Mario. Say something sweet Dahlia, your voice I'd like to hear.  Oh, Dahlia, Dahlia, Dahlia, I may just be going to jail, but Dahlia, Dahlia, Dahlia,  Dahlia, Dahlia, Dahlia.  By the light of the silvery moon, I want to prove to my honey I'm true.  Dahlia, Dahlia, Dahlia, Dahlia, I want to love you so. I'll be a zombie of God if you'll  be my Mario.  That funny feelin', feelin', feel that trombone blowin' tongue. Eat them fiddles, blowin'  sound. Oh, the, oh, the cuddle up close.  Baby face, you've got the cutest little baby face. There's not another one to take your  place. Baby face, my poor heart is jumping, you sure have started something. Baby face,  I'm up in heaven when I meet your fond embrace. I didn't need a shot, cause I just fell in  love with your pretty baby face.  Just around the corner, there's a rainbow in the sky. So let's have another cup of  coffee, and let's have another piece of pie. Trouble's like a bubble, and the clouds will  soon roll by. So let's have another cup of coffee, and let's have another piece of pie.  Let a smile be your umbrella, or it's just an April shower. Even John D. Roccapella is  looking for the silver lining. Mr. Herbert Hoover says that now's the time to buy. So  let's have another cup of coffee, and let's have another piece of pie.  Once I built a railroad, I made it run. Made it race against time. Once I built a railroad,  now it's done. Brother, can you spare a dime?  He was a famous dropper. He was a famous dropper.  He was a famous trumpet man from out Chicago way. He had a boogie style that no one else  could play. He was a top man at his craft. But then his number came up, and he was gone  with the draft. He's in the army now, a blowin' reveille. He's the boogie woogie bugle boy  of Company B. They made him blow a bugle for his Uncle Sam. It really brought him down  because he couldn't jam.  Warned through a party in the county jail. The prison band was there, they began to wail.  The band was jumpin' and the joint began to swing. You shoulda heard those knocked out  jailbirds sing, let it rock. Everybody, let it rock. Everybody in Old South Park was dancin'  to the jailhouse rock. Spider Murphy played his inner saxophone. Little Joe was blowin'  the slide trombone. The drummer boy from Illinois would crash boom bang. The whole rhythm section  was a purple gang, let it rock. Everybody, let it rock. Everybody in Old South Park was  dancin' to the jailhouse rock.  Lollipop lollipop ohh lolly, lolly, lolly, lolly, pop. Lollipop, lollipop, ohh lolly,  lolly, lolly, lolly, pop. Lollipop, lollipop, ohh lolly, lolly, lolly, lolly, pop. Lollipop,  ohh lolly, lolly, lolly, lolly, pop. Lollipop, ohh lolly, lolly, lolly, lolly, pop.  You  You  Oh  Oh  I  Can't touch this  Can't touch this  Break it down  You're right  You'll be  I can't get out of bed today. I'll get you up my mind. I just can't seem to find a way  You know what I mean  Oh  You 