 Bandages and bandaging techniques.  Now that you've addressed your airway, breathing and circulation, your next priority is to  control serious bleeding.  This can be done in a number of ways.  Firstly, if you have your latex gloves on, you can use your hand.  Secondly, any other pieces of material that are available.  Obviously it is better to use the bandages contained in your first aid kit.  Your first aid kit should include major wound dressings.  Major wound dressings are used to control severe bleeding and to cover large wounds.  Roller bandages.  Roller bandages are used to keep dressings in place, support an injured limb and apply  pressure to control bleeding.  Non-adherent wound dressings.  Adherent wound dressings are dressings used on burns, abrasions and other skin injuries.  Minor wound adhesive dressings.  Minor wound adhesive dressings are used to protect a minor wound from infection and to  control minor bleeding.  Cold compressors.  Cold compressors are used to reduce pain and reduce swelling.  Eye pads.  Eye pads are used to cover and protect an eye injury.  Triangular bandage.  Triangular bandages are used for bandaging the hand, foot or head or as a sling for the  arm.  A very useful bandage in your first aid kit is the triangular bandage.  This can be used for slings, for padding or even a doughnut bandage.  How to make a doughnut bandage.  To make a doughnut bandage firstly fold your triangular bandage lengthwise.  Now bring the bandage into a loop and fold the bandage onto itself working around the  bandage, tucking the material into itself.  Doughnut bandages can be used for wounds where bone has broken the skin and embedded objects.  When the doughnut bandage is finished it should look like this.  How to make a sling.  Triangular bandages can be also made into slings.  One type of sling is made by lying the triangle across the chest and over the shoulder.  The two ends then can be tied behind the neck to support the forearm.  To support the elbow either twist and tuck in the third corner or fold and attach with  a clip.  Major bleed.  Attending to a major bleed must be done with speed and accuracy.  Apply direct pressure on the wound with a sterile dressing.  Elevate the limb and keep pressure on the wound while you wrap a roller bandage around  the wound site.  Remember to keep applying pressure.  Internal bleeding.  Internal bleeding can be just as serious as external bleeding.  Some of the signs and symptoms of internal bleeding are pale, cold and clammy skin, rapid  and weak pulse, shallow and rapid breathing, light headedness, restlessness or faintness,  coughing frothy red blood, vomiting brown or red blood, passing red or smoky tarry faeces,  red or smoky urine and decreased levels of consciousness.  To care for internal bleeding make sure the person is comfortable, treat to minimise shock  and seek medical assistance.  Remember, do not apply pressure to an injured area and do not give food or fluids.  Embedded objects.  When dealing with embedded objects it is best to leave the object in the wound.  Treat the area with a doughnut bandage and apply a roller bandage around the whole area.  Systematic check of the body.  Once you have controlled serious bleeding, the ambulance is on its way, we then need  to return to the victim and check for any further injury.  Here we have a person with obvious injuries to the head.  There may be also other injuries that are not so obvious.  Treat the head injuries first.  In this instance we will address the superficial wounds and abrasions.  Protect the eye with an eye pad before bandaging the head using a roller bandage.  We will now do a further check of the body to assess for any further injury.  Always start with the head, even if you have already treated it, in case there are other  injuries.  Run your fingers through the hair and check for any lumps, depressions or wetness.  Now examine the torso.  Start from the neck down the spine, then the back and shoulder blades, collar bones and  abdomen.  Keep checking the ABCs and levels of response.  Now examine the limbs.  Run your hand down the limbs, once again checking for deformities, lumps or depressions.  Alternatively your patient may be able to tell you where they are injured.  When you find an injury, remove the clothing from around the injury if possible.  As you can see here, we have found a fracture.  Fractures.  Fractures come in many different forms.  A list of them can be found in your workbook.  When dealing with fractures, assist to make the victim comfortable and apply an ice pack  if available.  If the ice pack increases pain then remove it and as always seek medical assistance immediately.  Splinting.  Remember, splint only if necessary.  Splint the injury in the position you find it, splint the injured area and the joint  above and below.  If you must splint the limb, here is an example.  Remove clothing from the limb if possible.  Slide whatever you are using as a splint underneath the limb to immobilise the joint above and  below the fracture.  Secure the splint with bandages and seek medical assistance immediately.  Needlestick injuries.  Some people, such as healthcare workers, are at increased risk of needlestick injury, which  occurs when the skin is accidentally punctured by a used needle.  Bloodborne diseases that could be transmitted by such an injury include HIV, Hepatitis B  and Hepatitis C.  Immediately after the injury you should wash the wound with soap and water.  If soap and water aren't available, use alcohol-based hand rubs or solutions.  Take the victim straight to a doctor or to the nearest hospital emergency department.  Take detailed information about the injury, including when it happened, how deeply the  skin was penetrated, whether or not the needle was visibly contaminated with blood and any  first aid measures used.  Sprains and strains.  Strains and sprains are soft tissue injuries, although the cause and tissues involved in  each are different.  A sprain is an injury that involves the ligaments and other soft tissues around a joint, such  as ankle or wrist.  A strain occurs away from a joint and involves a torn or overstretched muscle or tendon,  commonly in the calf, thigh or lower back.  In first aid, we remember the word RICE.  Rest, ice, compression and elevation.  In treating a sprained ankle, first cover the injured site.  We never put an ice pack directly onto the skin.  Then wrap with a roller bandage to secure the ice pack.  Finally, elevate the limb.  If you are confronted by a burns victim, there is a process you must follow before applying  any first aid procedures.  Ensure safety for rescuers, bystanders and the victim.  Do not enter a burning or toxic atmosphere without appropriate protection.  The victim should be removed to a safe environment as soon as possible.  Stop the burning process.  Stop, drop, cover and roll.  Smother any flames with a blanket.  Move away from the burn source.  Assess the adequacy of airway and breathing.  Check for other injuries.  If safe, give oxygen to all victims with smoke inhalation or facial injury.  Call for an ambulance.  Dial triple zero.  There are three classifications of burns.  First degree or superficial.  Second degree or partial thickness.  Third degree or full thickness burns.  First degree burns are the burns you may receive off a stove or a cigarette.  These can be treated by running under cool running water for some ten minutes.  Second and third degree burns are a lot more serious.  Here we have a second degree burn.  Note the peeling of the skin around the edges.  Also see how the skin is red and blistered.  A second degree burn affects both the epidermis and the dermis.  These burns are usually very painful.  Here we have a third degree burn.  Note the charring and darkening of the skin,  the redness on the outside and also these severe blisters.  A third degree burn affects the tissue underneath the skin.  This can lead to the burn being either very painful  or if the nerve endings are damaged, not so good.  To treat a third degree burn, firstly we cool the area with cool running water.  Then we apply a sterile dressing and then wrap with a roller bandage.  Seek medical attention as third degree burns may be life-threatening.  For second degree burns the same treatment applies.  Remember, do not apply a third degree burn.  For second degree burns the same treatment applies.  Remember, do not use butter on burns.  Electrical burns.  Electrical burns, including lightning strike, are often associated with other injuries,  including involvement of cardiac and respiratory systems, loss of consciousness and trauma.  The priorities in the management of electric shock victim are two.  Isolate the power supply without touching the victim.  Commence CPR if required.  Cool burns if safe to do so.  Give oxygen if possible.  Call for an ambulance by dialling 000.  High voltage injuries are associated with arc burns and flash burns.  Lightning can cause a person to go into cardiac arrest.  You may need to commence CPR in this situation.  Friction burns.  Friction burns are caused by contact with any hard surface such as roads,  commonly known as road rash, carpets or gym floor surfaces.  They are usually both a scrape, an abrasion, and a heat burn.  Friction burns to the skin are seen in athletes who fall on floors, courts or tracks.  Motorcycle or bicycle riders who have road accidents  while not wearing protective clothing might get friction burns.  The minor burns are treated in a similar way like treatment of any other type of burns.  Place the injured area under running water,  then clean properly and apply anti-inflammatory lotions.  Finely dress the area with soft cotton cloths  in order to avoid direct exposure of the wound to any dirt or dust.  Chemical burns.  If a person suffers a chemical burn, you should  avoid contact with any chemical or contaminated material.  For example, use gloves.  If available, refer to Material Safety Data Sheets, MSDS, for specific treatment.  Refer to instructions on the container for specific treatment.  Call the Poisons Information Centre on 13 11 26 for further advice.  Remove the chemical and any contaminated clothing as soon as practical.  Brush powdered chemicals from the skin.  Immediately run cool tap water directly onto the area for at least 20 minutes.  If chemical enters the eye, open and flush the affected eye or eyes  thoroughly with water for at least 20 minutes  and refer the victim for urgent medical attention.  Do not attempt to neutralise either acid or alkali burns  because this will increase heat generation which may cause more damage.  Bites.  If somebody is bitten by a snake or a spider, you must treat the bite,  even if you think the animal is harmless.  You might be tempted to wash the bite.  You must not do this.  It may make it difficult for medical assistance to determine  which anti-venom to administer.  To treat a bite, cover the wound and apply a constrictive bandage  to the bite site itself.  Then apply a roller bandage winding from the joint below the bite  then all the way up the limb. 