 So let's look here at the bottom of page two, and you'll see at the bottom of page two this concept of caveat emptor.  Now, caveat emptor is a Latin term that you're probably familiar with. It means, let the buyer beware.  And the truth of the matter is, in a lot of instances in life, you do have to be careful to make sure that you're getting what you believe you're getting.  For example, if you're buying a used car, and let's say that used car doesn't have a working air conditioning system,  you might find yourself with a seller that tries to meet you on a cold winter night, so you're less likely to test out that air conditioning system.  If the heater doesn't work, he might try to meet you on a warm summer afternoon, so you're less likely to test the heater.  So you kind of got to be careful to make sure you're not getting scammed.  But the truth is, with residential real estate, this concept of caveat emptor doesn't apply in the same way.  Why? Because there's rules that say that the seller has to disclose everything that they know is wrong with that property.  For example, if somebody died in that home in the last three years, the seller has to volunteer that information to the buyer.  And the truth is, if they don't, they could be liable for not disclosing that.  Agents have a duty to do visual inspections on properties to make sure that the buyer is aware.  We point out some things that might be visually evident.  So this concept of caveat emptor, while it applies for a lot of things in life, you buy a used iPhone off eBay or you buy a used computer off Craigslist,  you got to be careful to know that you're getting what you think you're getting.  But in residential real estate, this concept of buyer beware doesn't apply in the same way.  And part of this comes from the real estate law.  And if you look at the very top of page three, you'll see the term business and professions code.  Now, the business and professions code or the BNP is where all of our real estate laws can be found.  So right at the top of your book, at the top of page three, right above business and professions code, I would write the words all real estate law found in.  All of our real estate laws are found in the business and professions code.  And later on in this chapter, I'm going to show you all of the things that you absolutely cannot do with a real estate license in California.  I'll give you an example. Anytime you take client money, you've got to keep that client money in a totally separate account called a trust account.  If you put it in your own account, you violated the business and professions code.  Every time we run an ad as a real estate agent in the ad, we have to disclose that we're an agent in the ad.  If we don't, we violated the business and professions code. That's called a blind ad.  So we have this set of rules that we have to follow and all of our real estate laws are found in the BNP or the business and professions code.  So a couple of things we've learned so far. Number one, caveat emptor no longer applies, right?  Seller has to disclose. Second thing we've learned is that all of our real estate laws are found in this set of rules called the BNP or business and professions code.  Now we'll also look here at the middle of page number three. You'll see the term Department of Real Estate.  Now a pretty big change is happening, at least in nomenclature, in 2013. The Department of Real Estate is actually going to be renamed.  It's going away in the current form that it's in. It's going to be called the Bureau of Real Estate.  And part of that has to do with the budget cuts that we've had as a state in California.  And it's being named the Bureau of Real Estate and it's going to be put under the Department of Consumer Affairs.  But let me ask you this. How many people do you suppose in California have a real estate license?  Take a guess, maybe 100,000, 200,000? Well, the high watermark was over 540,000 people.  At the peak of the market, I'm going back 2006, 2007, et cetera, there was about 540,000 people in California with a real estate license.  Now over the years, since 2006 and 2007, that's dwindled pretty significantly.  There was about 100,000 licensee reduction since 2007 and 2008 all the way to 2012 and 2013.  Now we're seeing a little bit of an uptick now here in 2013, but it's still not at the levels that it was.  Now let me ask you a question. Why do you suppose there are so many people with a real estate license in California?  Well, the truth is that there's not that many cardiologists, there's not that many neurologists.  The difference, of course, is that frankly, the real estate license is just really easy to get.  You know, you hang out with me for seven, eight, nine weeks, suffer through some of my bad jokes,  take the real estate test, and all of a sudden you're a real estate agent.  You spend a few hundred bucks on the process, so it's just pretty easy to get.  So we have a lot of people with a real estate license, but some students of ours hear that and they say,  well, how the hell am I supposed to make any money?  If everybody and their mother and father and sister and brother and boyfriend and girlfriend has a real estate license,  where's there room for me?  Well, you've heard of the 80-20 principle, where 80% of the business is done by 20% of the people.  Candidly, in real estate, it's probably closer to 90-10.  90% of the business in our real estate industry is controlled by probably 10% of the real estate agents out there.  So there's still room for you in our business if you work hard.  So there's still a lot of room to make money, even though there are so many people that have this license in California.  Now, the head of the Department of Real Estate, if you look here on page number four,  the head of the DRE, of course, is the real estate commissioner.  Now, typically, when you go to take your exam, there's probably going to be a question or two about the real estate commissioner.  Probably one or two questions about the commissioner himself.  Now, I say it's a he because it is a he. It was a she two commissioners ago, but now it's Wayne Bell.  Wayne Bell is the California Bureau of Real Estate commissioner.  Now, a couple things you should know about the commissioner.  First thing, the commissioner was appointed by the governor, and you'll see this here on page number four.  The real estate commissioner got his job by being appointed.  It's not elected. It's an appointed position. The governor handpicks you.  Now, a couple questions about the commissioner that you should know on page number four.  One thing is the commissioner screens applicants for licensure in this gray box on page four.  The commissioner screens applicants for licensure.  Now, what does that mean? That means in order to get a real estate license,  you're going to need to go through a criminal background check in order to get your real estate license.  Now, what sorts of things are they looking for in that criminal background check?  Well, looking for, you know, felonies. They're looking for even misdemeanors.  Anything that has happened to you, even if it's been expunged.  Now, if you don't know what expunged means, that's good because you've probably never been arrested.  That's just a good thing. But if it's been expunged, you still have to disclose it on your application.  So make sure that you put everything on there because the commissioner is going to screen you for licensure.  Right? That's number one.  Another thing that I would write on page number four, I just make a quick note at the top of the page.  The commissioner investigates complaints against licensees.  Now, what does that mean? That means that the real estate commissioner,  when a client, let's say, complains about you to the commissioner,  the commissioner is charged with the task of investigating that complaint.  Now, what sorts of things is the commissioner going to really deeply investigate?  Well, one thing they're not going to investigate are commission disputes.  For example, if you and I have an understanding or even a written contract that there's a $30,000 commission  and that you and I are going to split that 50-50, and I stiff you on the commission, I don't pay you.  Now, if you tell me, hey, look, I hate you, I'm going to complain about you to the real estate commissioner,  the truth is that the commissioner most likely isn't even going to investigate that complaint.  They're going to tell you to sue me in civil court.  It's not something the commissioner is going to spend time investigating.  What the commissioner is going to investigate is stuff like fraud, forgery, theft,  the big stuff that real estate licensees theoretically could do.  Now, the worst thing in the world that the commissioner can do to you,  absolute worst thing, is take away your license.  The commissioner could revoke your license.  Now, some things that would warrant license revocation, like theft or forgery,  you'll lose your license over that, but that's also criminal, isn't it?  So the commissioner is then going to refer that case over to the district attorney.  So the district attorney is actually going to prosecute you for a suspected violation of the real estate law.  So you've got to be careful of these.  If the question on the exam asked, which of the following parties is responsible for investigating a complaint,  yeah, that's the commissioner.  The commissioner is going to investigate it.  Who's responsible for prosecuting you for a suspected violation of the law?  Well, that's the district attorney, right?  So you've got to be careful.  Commissioner investigates.  The district attorney prosecutes for a suspected violation of the real estate law.  Remember, again, the commissioner is head of the DRE, or the Bureau of Real Estate, as it's called now.  And how did he get his job?  Remember, he was appointed by the governor, appointed by the governor.  Now, if you look at the bottom of page four and all of page five,  one thing you'll notice here, it says real estate brokerage.  Now, there are two licenses that the Department of Real Estate issues.  The Bureau of Real Estate or the Department of Real Estate issues two licenses in California.  Now, you can't have both at the same time.  The licenses are broker and salesperson.  Now, the broker license is the, on balance, it's the better of the two.  The big difference, there's more things I could say,  but the big thing that a broker could do that a salesperson can't is the broker can operate alone.  The broker is her own walking, talking real estate office.  The salesperson, on the other hand, has to work for a broker in order to do anything that would require a license.  So if you get a sales license and you haven't yet chosen a broker to work for,  and your cousin calls you up and says, hey, I want to buy a house, or hey, I want to sell my building,  you cannot do anything that would require a license unless your license is activated.  Now, how do you activate it? You put it under a broker.  Now, as a broker, you can set up your company one of three ways.  And I'm at the bottom of four and all of five, right?  You could set up your company one of three ways.  One way is you could set up your company as a corporation.  Another way is you could set it up as a partnership.  And finally, you could set it up as a sole proprietorship.  So those are the three ways to set up your brokerage.  You could set it up as a corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship.  Now, let's talk about the first one. Let's talk about the corporation to start.  Now, most big real estate companies are set up as corporations, principally because of liability.  I mean, as a broker, I'm responsible for anything that, let's say, my 200 agents do.  So if I have 200 salespeople working at my company and one of them screws up, and they're going to, it's just math, right?  We try our best, but one person might screw up.  If that person gets sued, not only are they theoretically in trouble, but I'm also in trouble.  So as a broker, most large companies, and maybe even small ones, set their firms up as corporations to limit some liability.  It's like if you are a shareholder in Apple Computer and someone sues Apple.  They're just suing Apple. They're not suing you.  So from a liability perspective, it can be better sometimes to set up as a corporation.  But even if you license your brokerage as a corporation, you still need your own personal broker license.  So you could have a corporate broker entity, but you as a human being, licensed broker, still need to take the classes, study, pass the test,  and have your own individual broker license to make the corporation go.  So could you set up your brokerage as a corporation? Of course.  But there needs to be a human being broker behind the corporation responsible for the day-to-day activities of the corporation.  Another way you could set up your brokerage, of course, is as a partnership.  Now if you set it up as a partnership, it could be between two brokers, a broker and a salesperson,  or even a broker and somebody that doesn't have a real estate license.  But at all times, at least one of the partners has to be licensed out.  That's right, as a broker.  Now of course, if you are an unlicensed partner, you couldn't do anything with the partnership that would require a license.  So signing off on all the files and talking to clients about score footage and all that, that needs to be done through the broker partner.  But either way, corporation, you need a personal broker license.  Partnership, at least one partner has to be licensed as a broker.  And then clearly on page five, as a sole proprietor, you also need to be licensed out.  Yeah, as a licensed broker.  So corporation, partnership, sole proprietor.  Cool, either way is fine.  But at all times, at least one person has to be licensed out.  That's right, as a broker.  Now if you look here really quickly, if you look at page number six, one thing I do want to show you on page six,  you'll see this section that says license inspection on page six.  Now as a salesperson, you're going to get two things from the Bureau of Real Estate.  One thing that you'll get is a large kind of diploma looking license.  Another thing that you'll get is a small credit card size pocket license that you should keep on your person.  Keep it with you all the time.  And mainly the reason you want to keep it with you is because if you are showing property in a large condominium building  or if you're showing property in a gated community, you actually may need to present to the security your real estate license,  your driver's license, and your business card in order to get in to show the property.  So you want to keep that with you.  Now as a salesperson, they only give you one of those big diploma looking things.  The big diploma looking license, you only get one of those from the Department or Bureau of Real Estate.  The reason they only give you one of those is because as a salesperson, you can only work for one broker at a time.  A real estate salesperson can't work.  You cannot work for Century 21, Coldwell Banker, and Prudential all at the same time.  You have to pick a broker and stick with it, right?  Now you can quit if you're fired.  If you leave, you'll take your physical license with you and hand it to whatever broker you're going to work for next.  And that salesperson's license must be on file at the broker's main office.  And if you look in the book, this paragraph says license inspection.  I would highlight that last sentence in that paragraph.  It says the licenses of any salespeople working for the broker must be on file where?  At the broker's main office.  Now of course the real estate commissioner has that rule.  And the reason that the real estate commissioner has that rule is if he sends out someone to audit a broker,  he doesn't want to have to go to 55 branch offices to do the audit.  We want to come to one location, the broker's main office, and figure everything out in the main office.  So the licenses of any salespeople that are working for the broker must be on file at the broker's main office,  not at the branch office that the salesperson works at.  Now if you look here on page number six, you'll see something that says the broker-salesperson relationship.  And what's interesting about this is it's kind of unique in our real estate world as opposed to other industries.  I'll give you an example.  In real estate, and you might want to make a little note of this here on page number six.  In real estate, for tax purposes, we're an independent contractor, meaning that we get a 1099 form, not a W-2.  So that's why most employees, frankly, kind of like tax time.  Because, you know, February, March, you send out your tax return, you get a tax refund.  A lot of the time, real estate agents actually aren't paying into the system over the prior tax year.  So a lot of real estate agents actually hate tax time.  So that's a little hint that I'd actually give you.  Make sure that you're stacking some money away.  Work with your CPA.  Figure out how much money you actually need to set aside so you're not caught off guard in April.  A lot of real estate agents, especially that just start out, start to get some success, have to do a whole other transaction in April, not to pay their bills, but just to pay their tax liability from the last year.  So make sure that you're watching that and you're putting money away for those taxes.  Why? Because from a tax perspective, how are we treated?  We're independent contractors.  From a compensation perspective, we're independent contractors.  Now, what does that mean?  That means we don't get paid until we sell something.  When you're an employee, when do you get paid?  Just by showing up.  You show up every day, every hour for work.  You're collecting a paycheck.  In real estate, you could work damn hard for a whole six months or a year and not make very much money.  Or you could get lucky and not work very much and make a truckload of money.  So for compensation purposes, we're independent contractors, just like tax purposes.  For work hour requirements, we're independent contractors.  When you get a job at a real estate company, your broker does not tell you when to come in in the morning, when to go home, when to take a lunch.  Most real estate offices, you could show up at 8.30 in the morning and nobody would be there.  You show up at a regular office at 8.30 in the morning, it's bustling.  People are at the coffee machine.  They're getting the water cooler.  They're getting settled.  They're starting their day.  They're on the phone.  Because we don't have to be anywhere at any time.  We're accountable to our clients only from a work hour perspective.  So be careful.  The test we're going to ask you, from a tax, compensation, or work hour requirement perspective,  real estate salespeople are generally treated how?  We're independent contractors.  Now, on the other hand, from a liability perspective, the Department of Real Estate always looks at brokers.  Always looks at brokers as employees or as salespeople as employees of the broker.  So as a real estate broker, I am employing you.  This is particularly true from a liability perspective.  If you do something wrong and you get sued, not only are you in trouble, but the broker's in trouble too.  It's like, think about it this way.  If you're sitting at a red light and, God forbid, a UPS truck barrels into the back of your car,  not only could you sue the driver of that truck, who else could you sue?  You could sue UPS because UPS is responsible for whatever that employee does while under the scope and course of employment.  Same thing with our real estate world.  As a salesperson, if you're working for a broker and you mess up, not only are you liable, but the broker's also liable.  So again, be careful of this if you get it on the exam.  From a tax, compensation, or work hour requirement perspective, how are you treated?  You're an independent contractor generally.  But 100% of the time, a salesperson is always considered by the real estate commissioner to be what?  An employee of the broker.  Very, very important.  Now, I want to show you something here really quickly on page numbers 8, 9, and 10.  I want to show you something on 8, 9, and 10.  This is a sample California Association of Realtors independent contractor agreement.  Now, this is the parties to this contract, of course.  The parties to this contract are the broker and the associate licensee.  Now, really quickly, before I move on with this contract too deeply, I do want to share with you something.  As a broker, if you're in our program to get your broker license, as a broker, could you work for another broker?  You could.  As a broker, you could work for another broker.  You'd be called a broker associate or associate broker.  Now, what's interesting about this is here's what I don't want.  I'm a broker.  You're a broker.  I don't want you working in my office and eating my donuts, drinking my coffee, flirting with my receptionist and flushing my toilets,  and then every single deal you do, you run that through your own company.  So is the Department of Real Estate or Bureau of Real Estate,  are they okay with brokers working for other brokers?  Yeah.  A broker could work for five different brokers and have his own thing going too.  But contractually, if you work in a real estate company and you're a broker and I'm a broker,  I'm probably going to make you sign something saying that every deal you do is going to be put right through my brokerage, right?  Because I know you're in your own office too.  So you'll probably have a contract that says that you have to put your deals through my company.  Now, again, if you look at pages 8, 9, and 10,  what you'll see here, again, is a sample California Association of Realtors Independent Contractor Agreement.  Now, a couple things that I would bring to your attention with this document.  First, who do you think this contract protects?  Well, frankly, it protects both.  It protects the broker and it protects the associate broker or the salesperson working for that broker.  It protects both parties.  Now, let me ask you this.  What are some things that you're probably going to want clearly spelled out in your agreement with whatever broker you work for?  Well, you're probably going to want your commission split spelled out.  That's how most real estate brokers make money is that they have a ton of salespeople working for them.  They take little pieces out of everybody's check and then hopefully the broker gets rich.  That's generally how our business is structured.  It's all about recruitment.  It's about hiring and developing and getting great people to work with you  and taking little pieces out of everybody's check.  That's the way most brokers candidly make money.  Now, you're going to want to know what that commission split is going to be.  Some brokers charge you desk fees, expenses every month.  Like every time you pick up the phone and use the landline to make a call, they may charge you per minute.  Every copy that you make, they charge you per copy.  They may charge you just a general desk fee of $50 a month up to $1,000 a month to work there.  Now, are you going to want to know what that desk fee is?  Absolutely, because most brokers today don't send you a bill.  If they have desk fees, they'll just keep a credit card number on file  and the first of the month they'll run the card and tell you what they charge, not what they're going to charge.  So you're going to want to know what that is.  You're going to want to know expenses.  You're going to want to know how the revenue is split up.  You're going to want to know all that.  Now, one thing I do want to bring to your attention that I think you'll find interesting is on page number 10,  check out paragraph 11 on page number 10.  Paragraph 11 on page 10.  It says automobile.  Now, if you read through this paragraph, it says that the associate licensee,  that's like the salesperson or the person that's being employed,  shall maintain automobile insurance in the following limits.  Now, why do you think the broker really cares as to what your car insurance limits are?  Yeah, because if you've got a client in a car and you get in an accident, God forbid,  not only are you theoretically liable, but who else is liable?  The broker that employs you.  So the broker is going to want to make sure that you have minimum coverage amounts.  Typically it's $100,000, $300,000 that the broker will require.  Frankly, if you're leasing your car or you have a car loan, that's probably the limits that you have anyway.  Now, if you also read the last portion of this paragraph, it says,  the broker shall be named as an additional insured on the associate licensee's policy.  That doesn't mean that the broker wants to drive your car.  The broker does not want to drive my 1986 Toyota Cressida.  What the broker is saying is that if you get in an accident,  not only are you covered, but the broker is also covered,  because the broker knows that if you get in an accident because you're his or her employee,  the broker is also theoretically liable.  So that's what this paragraph is saying about automobile coverage.  Some students ask me, well, is this going to kick up my coverage limits?  Generally it shouldn't, because unless you're adding more coverage,  you're not adding the broker as an additional insured.  You're not asking for more coverage.  You're just saying, look, cover this guy too, or cover this company too.  Now, if you look at pages 8, 9, and 10, you can kind of go through it on your own,  and you can post any questions that you have to our forum or our Facebook page.  But a big question I have for you is, you already know that this is going to benefit.  Having a written document is going to benefit both parties.  My question for you is, and the exam's question might be,  do you think that it is required by law to have a written contract  between the broker and the associate licensee?  And the answer is yes.  The real estate law requires that the broker and the associate licensee  have a written contract with one another.  And frankly, that's one of the fastest things that the Department of Real Estate will check,  or the Bureau of Real Estate will check, if they come to audit a broker.  They'll say, look, you've got 100 people working for you.  Give me the files on Fred Flintstone, Barney Rubble, Papa Smurf.  They'll grab all those files and make sure you've got two things in there.  The first thing they want to see is, is the original salesperson's license in the file?  Remember we talked about that.  The salesperson's license has to be in the file.  The second thing that they'll want to see is,  is there a written contract between the broker and the salesperson?  Now, you don't have to use this contract on page 8.  You could have a contract on toilet paper and crayon, and that's fine.  You just need some written document in the file.  This is one that most residential real estate houses will use  because it's a California Association of Realtors document.  But you have to have some written agreement between the broker and the associate licensee.  And a sample of this, again, is on pages 8, 9, and 10.  Now, if you look here, another couple things I do want to share with you.  One is here on pages 11 and 12.  What you could do with a real estate license.  Now, you can read through this on your own.  I just want to go over a few of the most important things  and a couple of common ones that you think about  when you think about having a real estate license.  What you can and can't do.  Number one, you can sell residential property.  I know these are on pages 11 and 12.  We're just kind of making our own list.  Number one, residential property.  You can sell houses with a real estate license.  Number two, with a real estate license, you can do commercial property.  A lot of people think that commercial property needs some separate license  or some separate endorsement.  You don't need that.  Commercial real estate, the same license to sell a house,  is the same license to sell a big building like the one I'm in right now.  Another thing that you could do with a real estate license is mobile home sales.  You can sell mobile homes.  Another thing you can do is you can do raw land.  You can do land brokerage with a real estate license in California.  You can do new construction with a real estate license in California.  You know, you go to a model home community,  and you see that there's a couple of salespeople in a trailer,  and everybody walks through the trailer.  You can sell new construction with a real estate license in California.  You can do property management.  You can do mineral, oil, and gas brokerage with a real estate license in California.  You can also do loans with a real estate license.  A lot of people don't know that.  California, the same license to sell a house,  you can use that exact same license to do a loan.  Now, generally, you wouldn't be able to do the loan  and also sell the real estate on the same transaction,  but it's the same license.  Selling houses, financing houses, financing commercial real estate,  selling commercial real estate.  The reason I'm so excited about this is that there's so many ways to make a dollar  with a real estate license in California.  Sell houses, do loans, do property management, do land deals.  You know, a bunch of ways to make money.  Now, one note that I will give you is,  a couple years ago, I'm going back to like 2009,  they passed something called the SAFE Act.  S-A-F-E.  And the SAFE Act says,  if you are a real estate licensee or any lender  and you're doing loans in California,  whether you work at a bank  or whether you work at a Department of Corporations loan shop  or if you're a real estate licensee doing loans,  you need something called NMLS.  And NMLS stands for National Mortgage License Systems.  And to do loans, not only will you need your real estate license,  you'll also need an NMLS endorsement  through National Mortgage License Systems.  Now, you've got to take a 20-hour class  and every year you have to take an 8-hour class to renew.  But it's still a real estate license,  but on top of that, layered on that,  you're going to need an NMLS endorsement under the SAFE Act.  So just keep that in mind.  If you're thinking, hey, I want to do loans,  just remember you'll also need that initial 20-hour class  under NMLS and the SAFE Act.  So a lot of ways to make money with a real estate license  other than, hey, look, I'm John Smith, I sell homes.  You could say, hey, I'm John Smith, I sell commercial property.  Hey, I'm John Smith, I'm involved in property management.  A lot of ways to make money,  and I'd encourage you to explore all of them  after you get your license.  So another thing that you could do with a real estate license,  here on page 13,  and it's actually probably about, I don't know,  four or five times a year, I'd say,  we get people taking our class  that actually have no interest in selling real estate, homes.  They have no interest in doing leasing.  They have no interest in management.  All they want to do is sell businesses.  For example, coin-operated laundromats,  dry cleaners, barbershops, restaurants,  gas stations, car washes.  That's kind of what they want to do.  All they want to do is sell business opportunities,  and that's great.  And in California, as you'll see on pages 13 and 14,  that's actually one thing that you could do  with your real estate license here in California  is sell business opportunities.  Now, a couple things that I would write  next to business opportunities.  First thing I would write, I would write the words  not a real estate transaction.  A business opportunity transaction  is not a real estate transaction.  It involves the sale of personal property,  not real estate.  For example, let's say that you want to sell  your coin-operated laundromat business.  Now, typically, coin-operated laundromat people,  do you think that they actually own the building they're in?  No, they don't own the building.  They're just paying rent, right?  They're just paying rent to the owner of the building.  So my question is, if this doesn't involve  the sale of real estate, because it doesn't,  it's just a personal property on the inside,  the furniture, the fixtures, the equipment,  you're not actually getting the building.  So if you're not getting the building,  you're not actually going to get a deed.  You're going to get something called a bill of sale.  So one thing that I would put in your notes  next to business opportunities is  transferred using a bill of sale.  If it were real estate, it would be transferred using a deed,  which we'll learn about in a later chapter.  So personal property is transferred using a bill of sale,  whereas real estate is transferred using a deed.  Now, because these business opportunities  don't involve the sale of real estate,  you're actually not going to get a deed.  Again, you're going to get a bill of sale.  Now, you might say to yourself,  well, wait, what if I'm actually buying a business  that also owns the building?  Great!  Well, you'd get a bill of sale for the business,  you'd get a deed to the building,  and each one of those would be valued on its own merits.  So, again, business opportunity transactions,  not real estate, they're personal property,  and they're transferred using a bill of sale, not a deed.  Now, your question might be,  well, if this doesn't involve the sale of real estate,  why the hell do I need a real estate license in order to do it?  The reason is, one of the biggest expenses  that any business is going to have,  besides payroll, of course, is going to be rent.  Now, buying a business like a coin-operated laundromat  or a dry cleaner or a restaurant,  part of that involves negotiating the lease.  Because that requires a real estate license,  the government just says,  ah, we'll just put this in with the real estate licensing also.  So business opportunities, you need a real estate license  to do a business opportunity sale for someone else.  However, this doesn't involve the sale of real estate.  It involves the sale of personal property  transferred using a bill of sale.  Excellent.  Now, one thing I do want to show you here on page number 14,  the book has a couple of paragraphs  about taking and handling the business opportunity listing.  And, candidly, one of the biggest challenges  you're going to have, for example,  if you listed or you're representing a buyer  on a coin-operated laundromat deal,  one of the biggest things  that you're going to have to deal with, candidly,  is the fact that most small businesses  have horrific financial data.  It's not like if you were buying shares in Google  or JPMorgan Chase or in General Motors  where you have audited financial data.  You know, most small businesses, frankly, let's be honest,  you don't cheat on your taxes, I don't cheat on mine.  But if you own a coin-operated laundromat business,  are you probably cheating on your taxes?  Yeah, probably.  So, you know, you're showing a loss  or you're showing break-even or, you know, it's just a mess.  You have no receipts, no nothing, it's all cash.  So as a real estate broker, when you walk in there  and you're like, hey, well, let me see your financial data,  or when a buyer says, let me see the financial data,  let me look at the books,  a lot of the times, these guys don't have  accurate audited financial data.  So part of the challenge with taking and handling  the business opportunity listing, of course,  is making sure that you're in a position  where a financial position of the business  is being accurately stated.  For example, with coin-operated laundromats,  you might have to get creative.  You might have to say, well,  how many gallons are used in a wash?  Let me look at the bill for water  and figure out how many gallons are used,  how many cycles were used, back that out,  multiply that by the cost per wash  and try to figure out how much business they're really doing.  You might know how much natural gas is used  for every dryer cycle.  You might look at the gas bill,  because that's less likely to leak than the water is,  and you can form a good picture  of hopefully what that business is doing.  Another way to do it is just to sit outside the business  for a week or do a coin lock,  where the buyer and seller give the key  to a neutral third party,  and they come back in a couple of days  and coin the coins.  My point is that this is a hell of a lot different  than selling John and Sally Smith's home  here in Newport Beach, for example.  So, again, caution should be taken  when doing business opportunity transactions,  mainly because of the financial data  that might not accurately reflect  the true position of that business.  Now, let's move on to page number 15 here  and talk about the prepaid rental listing service license.  Now, earlier in this chapter,  I told you that there were two licenses  that the Department of Real Estate issues,  broker and salesperson.  Now, I don't want you to think I'm double-crossing you,  because there's actually kind of a semi-third license  called PRLS,  and this stands for prepaid rental listing service.  Now, a PRLS license does not require that you take a test.  You just pay a fee, fill out the application,  and they give you a PRLS license.  Now, what is different about this license  than the license you're getting with me  is a salesperson or broker license  lets you show property and negotiate contracts  and list property and sell commercial real estate  and maybe do loans and all sorts of stuff.  This license, PRLS, only lets you do one thing,  sell a list of available rental property.  So, for example,  let's say that you wanted to live here in Manhattan Beach  and you were looking at properties to rent.  Now, you might go to Craigslist,  but you might be worried that,  ah, I don't want to fall for some scam.  You might say to yourself,  yeah, I want something vetted a little more  or I want something that is just a little more thorough  or with more filters.  So you could go to a company  and pay them for a rental list.  Now, you can't just sell rental lists in California  willy-nilly.  You need to basically have a license in California  in order to do that.  That license is called PRLS  or Prepaid Rental Listing Service.  This license doesn't let you list property.  It doesn't let you manage real estate.  It's not a property management license.  It literally lets you sell a rental list.  That's it.  So PRLS, you pay some money, get the application,  fill it out, they approve you, boom.  Now you're a PRLS licensee.  Congratulations.  Now, what could you do?  Sell lists of available rental properties.  That's it.  Now, a couple differences  between the license you're going to get and this one.  First of all, the PRLS license is only good for two years.  Most real estate licenses, sales and broker,  real estate licenses are good for four years.  PRLS is good for two.  So the real estate commissioner makes you  touch, come back, touch the government  every couple years to renew this license, number one.  Another difference with PRLS  and the license you're going to get  is that PRLS requires that all PRLS licensees  post a $10,000 surety bond.  Now, what's a bond?  A bond's like insurance, right?  So if I, for example,  let's say that I'm a PRLS licensee.  You pay me, let's say, 50 bucks,  and I give you a rental list.  But it's bogus, fake.  Just fake addresses, you know, not real property.  I mean, just all 100% fake.  You're going to be pissed.  Then what are you going to do?  You're going to come back and want your money back.  And if I'm like, ah, screw you,  I'm not going to give you your money back.  You could now file a claim with the bonding entity  and have the bond give you restitution, right,  give you your money back.  So do you need a bond to be a real estate agent?  No.  But PRLS, couple differences,  couple, three differences.  Number one, does it let you sell real estate?  No.  It lets you sell rental lists, number one.  Number two, this license is good for two years.  Your license is good for four years.  Another big difference is that this license  requires that you post a $10,000 surety bond  per brick-and-mortar location.  So for every location that you have  as a PRLS licensee,  you need a $10,000 surety bond.  Now let's look here at the bottom of page 15  and the top of page 16.  Now this is a list of all of the people  that could conduct real estate-related activity  without a license.  So this is a list, basically,  of people that could engage in real estate activity  without a license.  Now, candidly, if you look at the bottom of page number 15,  the very bottom of page 15,  anyone dealing with their own property.  Clearly, if you're buying or selling your own business  or your own building or your own home,  you don't need a real estate license  in order to buy or sell your own property.  That's a very common exemption  for real estate licensing requirements.  Moving to the top of 16, let's look at this.  It says a corporation.  If you're an officer of a corporation  and you're selling corporate property,  you don't need a real estate license  to sell corporate property when you're an officer.  Now be careful, though,  because you cannot receive  any special compensation  like a commission or a bonus  directly related to the sale of that property  because now you're getting paid for selling real estate.  Boom, you're going to need a license.  But if you're a corporate officer  and you're selling corporate property,  you can do that without a license  provided that no special compensation  is given in connection  with the sale or purchase of that real property.  Look at the next one here.  It says a licensed securities dealer  selling business opportunities.  So if you have a license to sell stock  and you're selling stock in a business,  you don't need a real estate license  to sell that stock because your license  is a securities dealer.  Look at the next one. I love this one.  It's on the top of page 16.  This one gets a lot of people talking.  Anyone holding a duly executed  power of attorney from the owner.  Now think about this.  What's a power of attorney?  Doesn't a power of attorney let you act on my behalf?  Yeah, it does, actually.  So just like I don't need a real estate license  to sell my property,  if I give you power of attorney,  you're kind of like an extension of me.  So just like I don't need  a real estate license to sell my own property,  if I give you power of attorney,  you're not going to need a real estate license  to sell my property.  Now be careful, though, because you're now my  attorney-in-fact.  That's what we call somebody that we've given  power of attorney to, an attorney-in-fact.  The attorney-in-fact cannot  sell the property to themself,  obviously because there'd be a conflict  of interest even if they paid full price.  So I don't need a real estate license  to sell my house.  If I gave you power of attorney,  you won't need a real estate license to sell my house either,  but you can't sell it to yourself.  Now I would also encourage you  to research a lawsuit called  Sheets v. Edmonds.  In Sheets v. Edmonds, in that particular case,  the real estate commissioner ordered  the party to stop managing  a bunch of property without a license.  He told the commissioner, ah, forget it,  I don't need to listen to you.  I got power of attorney from the owner.  I'm a close personal friend of his.  I could manage his property without a license.  That's not true.  You cannot use this power of attorney exemption  to circumvent license law.  You'd still need a real estate license.  This is like one-off deals,  maybe on court order, for example,  but you can't make it a habit.  Look at the next one.  An attorney at law working for a client.  So if you're doing some real estate stuff  and you're a lawyer,  again, you can't use this to totally get around  having a broker license,  but if you're a lawyer and you're doing  you might not need a real estate license  to do it.  Any receiver or somebody acting under court order,  let's say in bankruptcy,  you wouldn't need a real estate license either.  Look at the next one.  A trustee selling under a deed of trust.  If you go to the courthouse steps  through nonjudicial foreclosure,  you'll see that trustees are selling property  that are in foreclosure  on behalf of the banks.  Those trustees are also exempt  from needing a real estate license.  Look at the next one.  I told you earlier that a real estate license  lets you do loans,  but if you're working at a bank,  a credit union, a pension fund,  and you're originating real estate loans,  you don't need a real estate license to do that  because you're operating under a different charter,  under a different license.  Look at the next one.  Escrow agents that are licensed  by the Department of Corporations  don't need a real estate license  to act as escrow  agents.  Some of these that are important,  I would remember,  buying or selling your own home,  the power of attorney one,  I would know for the exam,  that's a pretty important one.  Trustees selling property on behalf of lenders  at foreclosure sales  don't need a real estate license  to sell property through a foreclosure sale.  These are the exemptions  from needing a real estate license.  On page 17,  a couple things that are important here.  I already told you that you will need  to go through a criminal background check  in order to get your real estate license.  We know that.  However, you're not going to have to go through  a credit check to get your license.  If you've had a foreclosure or a bankruptcy  or late payments,  that's not going to stop you from getting a real estate license.  The real estate commissioner doesn't even check that  currently.  One other thing that they will check, however,  is child support.  Child support,  two people make a baby.  One person is kind of not around so much.  The person that's not around  has to pay child support to the person that isn't around  to take care of the kid.  If you have back child support,  you generally cannot have  a professional license  in California with back child support.  They check it for two big reasons.  Number one, child support  really is for the care of a minor.  It kind of, in some ways,  speaks to integrity  if you're not paying your child support.  The other thing is, who generally makes you pay child support?  The court, right?  Child support is generally  ordered to be paid by the court.  So if you have,  and this is at the bottom of 17,  if you have back child support  and the Department of Real Estate finds out,  and they will because they share information,  the Department of Real Estate will give you  or the Bureau of Real Estate  will give you a 150-day  temporary license.  If the child support has not been brought current  within that 150-day period,  the Real Estate Commissioner will  suspend your license until you're off of that list.  So, now you might say to yourself,  well, if child support is such a big deal,  why don't they just take the license away immediately?  Of course, the answer to that is,  how the hell are you supposed to make any money  to pay your child support if they take away your license?  So, they give you that kind of  150-day window to make it good.  If you haven't made it right in that  150-day period, they will suspend your license  until you do.  So, again, real estate licensees  trying to renew his license,  back child support, what will happen?  The licensee will be issued  a 150-day temporary license.  Now, you do have to go through  a criminal background check,  and they're going to check your child support.  Do you have to go through a credit check  in order to get your real estate license?  No, no credit check, but again,  child support and criminal background,  they're going to check both of those.  Now, I'm kind of going to lump  pages like 18 through 21 together,  and I'm going to go over  everything that you ever wanted to know,  or maybe didn't want to know,  about getting a real estate license in California.  Now, I'm going to split this into two sections,  and again, this is 18 through 21,  and I'm going to first talk about  how to get a broker license in California.  Now, 2013, when I'm taping this,  big change.  Assembly Bill 1718  has changed the requirements  for broker licensing,  and I'm going to go over those right now.  So, some of the stuff in the book has changed.  It's in the handout that was given to you with the book,  but I do want to go over the changes now.  So, to get a broker license,  there are two criteria  that you've got to fulfill, two criteria.  There's an experience requirement  as well as an education requirement  to get a broker's license,  experience and education.  Now, I'll talk about the experience one first.  The first hurdle that you have to get over  to get a broker's license is  you need to have two years  of full-time real estate experience  in order to get your license.  Now, how does the real estate commissioner  know that you were full-time?  Well, you filled something out  saying you were full-time.  The broker that employed you filled something out  saying that you were full-time,  and he talked about how many deals you did,  how much money you made,  approximate number of hours worked per week.  Now, is it possible  that you worked two years full-time  and made no money?  It's possible, I guess, but you're going to have  to explain to the real estate commissioner  why you're the most unlucky person on the planet  and how you worked 40 hours a week for two years  and didn't make a single sale, right?  It's possible, and your broker's got to sign something  saying that you did work full-time.  Now, it's possible also  if you weren't licensed for two years  to still get a broker's license  if you had alternative real estate experience.  Maybe you were an appraiser.  Maybe you were a general contractor  building homes and selling them.  Maybe you were a loan officer at a bank,  but that's all on a case-by-case basis,  but you can call the office,  and we'll give you the form that you would need  to prove two years of full-time,  unlicensed real estate experience.  So one way to qualify for your broker's license,  two years full-time real estate experience.  That's one way.  Another way that you could qualify  is by having a bachelor's degree  or better in real estate  with a major or minor in real estate.  Now, this is a pretty big change  from 2012 to 2013.  Back before 2013,  you could have had a bachelor's degree  in anything.  History, literature, physics,  you know, French.  You could have had a bachelor's degree in anything,  and that would have counted as being equivalent  for two years.  Now that's changed.  The real estate commissioner says,  Now, one thing that has a lot of people  kind of upset about this rule, frankly,  is the fact that a lot of great schools,  like you might have gone to, let's say, Stanford,  or you might have gone to Yale,  or you might have gone to Princeton,  all great schools,  but they might not have had  a specific degree program for real estate.  So that kind of has some people, you know,  up in arms about this,  but that's the rule now.  You've got to have two years  full-time real estate experience  with a major or minor in real estate.  Now, if you're a lawyer,  you actually don't need  to take any of the classes.  Your bar card gets you right in.  Now, the commissioner does have something  on the real estate website  saying that they'd still like to see  two years of law experience  related to real estate.  You can call our office  if you want to talk about that more,  but members of the California Bar  don't need to take any classes.  Let's talk about education now.  To get a broker's license,  not only do you need that experience criteria,  you'll also need eight college-level  classes in real estate.  And you'll see that list, of course, in your book.  There are five that are required  and then three electives for a total of eight.  That's how you qualify to take the broker's exam.  Now, for the sales exam,  there's actually no experience requirement.  It's just education.  So you need three college-level  classes in real estate  to get your sales license.  The classes are real estate principles,  real estate practice,  and one elective class.  Take those three classes,  qualify to take the exam.  So broker license, experience,  and the eight classes,  sales license, just the three classes that I mentioned.  Now, really quickly,  before I go over the exams themselves,  I just want to share  some global things about both.  Now, for either license,  you don't need to be 21.  You've got to be 18.  In either case,  you don't need to have a college degree  for broker or sales.  Hell, for a broker license, remember,  to get your broker license, theoretically,  you could have two years full-time experience,  no college degree, and you're good.  You also don't need a high school degree  in California.  Some states will require high school  or a high school equivalency or GED.  California doesn't require that.  And frankly, I think  that's probably a good thing  because if you messed up  in your youth,  if you work hard and have heart  and just really, really go for it  in real estate, you can make it  in our business.  There's not a lot of places like that.  A lot of industries, you'll need pedigree.  You'll need to have come from somewhere to do something.  In real estate, 95% of it  is probably just hard work,  good ethical business practices,  and you're not going to make a ton of money  in our business.  So I think it's a good thing that you don't need  the institutionalized education  that a lot of the other career paths  are going to require.  But that's just me.  You'll have your own opinion,  and that's certainly good.  But once you've fulfilled these criteria  for broker and sales,  you'll then move on to take the actual exam.  The real estate exam is given  at a government facility.  It's in a commissioner-approved site.  Currently, there's five locations  that you could take the exam.  They'll add more if more people  want to get into our great business.  But the exam for the sales license  is 150 questions.  It's 3 hours and 15 minutes long  for the sales.  The broker's exam is 200 questions.  It's given in a 100-question morning session  and a 100-question afternoon session.  You're given 2 hours and 30 minutes  for each session.  Both state exams, sales and broker,  are both multiple-choice.  There's no essay, there's no short answer,  there's no free response.  They're all multiple-choice tests.  Now, I know a lot of you are perfectionists.  You want to get 100% on everything that you do,  and a lot of the time, that's really useful  as an attitude to have.  This isn't one of those times.  If you take the test and you ace it,  and I take the test and I barely pass it,  we'll actually get the exact same pass notice.  The DRE, the commissioner,  will not tell you what you got on the exam  unless you fail it.  So if you fail it, they'll say, you know,  you needed a 70 in the case of the sales.  You got a 69. That would suck.  And here's how you did  in each of the 7 categories that they test you on.  So you kind of know what to study  and how to improve.  So again, don't worry.  If you're spending 5-10 minutes on a question on the exam,  just guess and move on or skip it, come back to it, right?  Just don't spend 45 minutes on a single question  because the government doesn't even care  what you got on the test.  It's qualifying in nature only.  So don't worry about trying to get 100% of the questions right.  So that's the sales test.  150 questions, 3 hours and 15 minutes.  Brokers test, 200 questions,  5 hours and 2 sessions.  Passing score on the sales exam  is a 70%.  Passing score on the brokers exam  is a 75%.  The state exams are computerized,  so you'll get your results right on the spot.  You go there, take the test on the computer,  they'll check your security,  they'll dock your mouse,  grade your test,  and they'll give you an envelope  right then and there with your exam results.  They'll make you wait  until you get out of the exam room to open it  so you don't start screaming or crying.  Hopefully you're screaming in joy,  not crying in pain.  But you'll get your exam results  right then and there on the spot.  So let's look at the bottom of page number 20 and 21.  Let's talk for a second about renewing the license.  Both the salesperson and the broker's licenses  are basically every 4 years.  You're going to have to take 45 hours worth of classes  every 4 years.  There's agency, ethics, trust fund handling,  fair housing, risk management,  and then the rest you can pick.  The rest of the hours you can kind of choose  from whatever interests you.  And that's, I think, what's coolest about  California real estate licensing  and how the commissioner has it set up.  You could take a class in staging, for example,  or interior design,  or working with elderly people,  or all sorts of cool classes  on loans or reverse mortgages.  You can use that  every 4 years to renew the license.  Now, one little bit  of information that you might  want to know for the exam,  even though it's not in the book here in this chapter,  is with regard to  renewing a license once you've  gotten up there in years.  There's something called the 70-30 rule.  And basically what the 70-30 rule is,  if you're over 70,  and you've been  licensed in good standing for more than  30 years, so you're over 70  and you've been licensed for more than 30 years,  the real estate commissioner says, ah, forget it.  You don't need to take continuing education  classes every year. We'll just renew your  license automatically. Now, you'll still need  to pay the commissioner to renew it every 4 years.  He'll still take your money gladly.  He just doesn't make you pay a guy like me every 4 years  to renew your license once you're over 70  and you've been licensed  for more than 30 years.  Now, sometimes some people get a real estate  license and forget they have it.  And that's not good.  The real estate commissioner doesn't call you  every 4 years and remind you to renew  your license. So, you've got to  keep track of this. They'll send you a letter,  and if you don't check your mail or it gets lost in the mail,  kind of too bad. You're a problem.  Be careful, though. If you look at the bottom of page 21,  every 4 years  you know you've got to renew your license.  But the commissioner is actually pretty cool about this.  He says, look, I'll give you 2 years  after your license expires.  Now, licensed activity must  cease. It's not like you could work  during that 2 year period.  But after your license expires, there's kind of a  2 year grace period. Again, you can't work,  but you're in this expired  slash semi-grace period  bubble. As long as you renew  within that 2 year period, you pay the late fee,  take the classes, pay the renewal fee, you're good.  License goes for another 4 years.  The problem is, if you  want to renew your license after that  2 year period has expired.  So if somebody calls you up and says, hey, my license  expired last year, what do I do?  Well, take the classes, pay the late  fee, pay the renewal fee, and it's a wrap. You're good.  If somebody says, hey, my  license expired in 2009,  what do I do? Well, that's more  than 2 years ago, so you'll need to  requalify for and retake the whole damn  real estate test all over again.  So don't do that. Don't let more that you  should renew your license every 4 years,  but don't let more than  2 years pass from the  date that it expired, because if you do,  you're going to have to requalify for  and retake the whole damn real estate test  all over again. So again, just make sure  you're on top of it, and you are renewing  your license every 4 years.  So as of July  of 2009, if you look here on page  number 22, as of July of  2009, on all first  contact material with the public,  your real estate license number  has to be on  all first contact material with the  public. What does this mean? This means  letterhead, postcards, mailers,  business cards, email signature blocks,  flyers, they all need your license  number. Now a lot of people hear that and they say,  huh, does that mean my broker's license  number or my license number? Now  that means your personal  license number, not your broker's license  number. Your license number  needs to be on all first contact  material with the public. Now  why do they have that rule?  Candidly, they have that rule to cut down on unlicensed  activity. When the real estate market  starts to heat up, you have a lot of people  coming out of the woodwork saying, oh, you know  I do real estate, I just use my friend's license.  Totally illegal, right? You need  your license number on all  first contact material with the  public as of July  of 2009. So keep that in mind,  and that's what page number 22 is talking  about. Now if you look at page 23,  enforcement of the real estate law,  the real estate commissioner is the  one that's going to enforce the real estate law  and investigate any  complaints against licensees. So keep  that in mind. Now the real estate commissioner  cannot suspend or revoke your  license without at least giving you a hearing.  So you'll need a hearing if  there's an accusation filed against  you. Now this may result, for example,  in a restricted or probationary license.  It may result in suspension.  It may result in outright revocation.  But you will be entitled to a hearing  before any action can be taken  by the commissioner against your license.  Now if you look at page number  24 here, just talking about  the real estate law in general.  Earlier in this chapter on pages 24  and 25, I mentioned all  of the things, well I mentioned the  business and professions code. And remember  the business and professions code  is where our real estate law is found.  So 24 and 25  in your book list a lot of the  common violations of  the real estate law. But at the end of the day  these are all violations of what?  That's right, the business and  professions code. Now a couple  of the things on these two pages that I want  to bring to your attention in particular.  One of these is here at the bottom  of page number 24. You'll see the  term commingling at the bottom of page  24. Now what is commingling?  Commingling is where you mix  your money with the client money.  That's called commingling.  Now don't confuse commingling  with something called conversion.  Conversion is actually  misappropriation. It's where you've actually  spent the client's money. You've stolen it.  All bad. Now you can't mix  the client money either. Anytime  you have client money, that money  must be kept in a totally separate account  called a trust account.  If you put that money in your account, you're guilty  of something called commingling.  Now if you actually spend that client's money  that's different. That's called conversion  or embezzlement or misappropriation.  Now with regard to conversion,  with regard to commingling,  a couple of things that we have to know  about commingling. First thing  about commingling. Client money  must be kept in a totally separate account  called a trust account.  Now there's several questions that you  might be tested about on your real estate exam  that are on the test but not in the book  and you might want to put these somewhere  in your notes.  First thing. Client money  must be kept where again?  That's right. In a trust account.  Client money must be kept  in a totally separate account called a  trust account. Number one.  Number two. The name  on the bank account, the actual  name on the bank statement  for the trust account should read as  follows. It should say  the broker's name. So it should say like  Century 21 or Keller Williams or Coldwell  Bank or Prudential or whatever. So it  should say like XYZ broker  comma trust account.  Now the reason  that it should be labeled as a trust account  is because it should  be very evident that this is not  the broker's money. So if somebody says  hey I'm rich. I got ten million dollars in my trust  account. That doesn't mean they're rich.  Ten million dollars in your trust account just means you got a lot  of client money that you're taking care of.  That has nothing to do with your personal network.  So the broker's  name should be on the trust account  and it should be labeled as a trust account.  Also this is  for for example the IRS  or for a court. So if a broker gets sued  and the court says hey show me all your assets.  This should not be listed  as an asset because it's not broker  money. It's client money. So again  money in your trust account has  nothing to do with your personal  financial position or the position of your company.  So again XYZ broker  comma trust account and the broker  should be labeled as a trustee  of the trust account.  Now another question about  trust accounts that you should know.  Not every broker needs a trust  account frankly. If you get a broker's  license and you have no interest in  doing real estate. You just want to  get your broker's license and then do nothing  with it. You don't need a trust account  just because you have a broker's license. And the truth  of the matter is if you are a broker  and you can avoid having a trust account  you should avoid it. Because one of the most  common violations that the real estate  commissioner finds is improper  trust fund handling. So it's very important  if you can avoid the trust account. Most  people would say look avoid it just because  it's less moving parts for you to  screw up. Another thing that  you should know about the trust account is who  can make withdrawals from it.  There are only three people on the  planet that can make withdrawals from the  trust account. Now one of  those people is not the client.  The client themselves should never  have access to the trust account.  Why? Because there's no rule that  says that you need to have separate  trust accounts for every client.  So you're putting everybody's money  in the same trust account. Now that can  get kind of confusing. So another rule  because you've got so many clients' monies  in the same account, the rules  state that the balances should be checked  daily and the trust account  should have a formal reconciliation  done monthly. So the  balances should be checked  daily and the amount  the trust account should be reconciled  monthly.  Now another thing that's  important in terms of withdrawing  from the trust account. Real quick, withdrawing  from the trust account, three people as I  started to say. The first person  that can make a withdrawal out of the  trust account is the broker herself.  The broker can make withdrawals from  the trust account. Another person  that could make withdrawals from the trust account  is a salesperson  appointed by the broker. So a  salesperson appointed by the broker can  also make withdrawals from the trust account.  an unlicensed person can also withdraw from the trust account as long as that unlicensed  person is also covered by a bond.  So in case that unlicensed person, like a company controller or accountant or CFO, if  they steal the money, there's no risk of harm to the public because the public is covered  by the bond.  So the bond, by the way, should be in the maximum amount foreseeable inside of that  trust account.  So if you've got two trust accounts and the unlicensed person has access to one of them  and the bond, because they'll need a bond, is $500,000, if you get a million-dollar deposit  to the trust account, this should not be in this account.  It should be in another account that the unlicensed person does not have access to so there's  no risk of harm to the public because that unlicensed person doesn't have access to that  trust account or raised the amount of the bond prior to the deposit.  So again, just a review.  Client money goes where?  In a trust account.  Who can make withdrawals from the trust account?  Broker, salesperson appointed, or an unlicensed person as long as they're covered by what?  That's right, covered by a bond.  Does every broker need a trust account?  No.  If you can avoid having one, you should.  And finally, and you'll see this at the bottom of page number 24, the maximum amount of a  broker's personal funds that could be kept inside the trust account without being guilty  of commingling, $200.  Now be careful.  Did I say you could have $200 of client money in your account?  No way.  You can keep $200 of your money inside of the trust account to cover bank service charges  on the account.  So those are a lot of the trust account related questions.  Again, the commissioner is going to want to make sure that you know what the rules are.  That way you're not improperly handling client money.  Now one other thing that I would show you on page 25, you'll see this at the bottom  portion of page 25, you'll see the term blind ad in bold.  A blind ad is any ad that fails to disclose that you're an agent.  Anytime you run an ad, in the ad you have to disclose that you're a real estate agent  in the ad.  We don't want the public picking up the phone, responding to an ad that you put out, and  having the public think that they're going to get in touch with the owner.  Totally not the way it works, right?  If you're an agent and you're running an ad on a home, you'll also need to have your  license number in the ad as of July of 2009, and you'll also need to have identification  in there that says that you're an agent.  Of course, your license number would be adequate, but AGT or BRO or your company logo.  That way the public knows that you are not the owner.  You're a third party representative of the owner.  Anytime you run an ad, you have to disclose that you're an agent or it's a blind ad, a  violation of the real estate law.  Now we just went over, of course, some pretty common violations of the Business and Professions  Code.  In the book on pages 28 and 29, you'll see further examples of unlicensed or unlawful  conduct.  Unlawful conduct you'll see on pages 28 and 29.  There's a difference, of course, between something that is unlawful and unethical.  Something, for example, could be ethical but illegal, and something could be legal  but unethical.  I'll give you an example.  Legal but unethical.  It might be legal to cheat on your spouse.  You're not going to get arrested for that, but most people would say, hey, that's unethical.  Legal but unethical.  Something could be illegal.  For example, going 67 miles an hour on most freeways is definitely illegal.  Speed limit 65, 67 is illegal.  But most people would say, hey, look, if it's not raining, you're going with the flow of  traffic, you're not distracted, you're not intoxicated.  Going 67, that's probably ethical.  You're not really hurting anyone, but it's illegal.  So the real estate world has trade organizations that basically set standards for not necessarily  what is just legal, because legality, of course, is just some minimum standard for acceptable  behavior.  But most people that are professionals want to adhere to a higher standard, a higher level  of service.  And if you look at page numbers 30 and 31, you'll see some language about realtors.  Now a lot of people use this term all the time.  You know, you might be driving home and saying, hey, mom, I passed my realtor exam.  The truth of the matter is, there's no such thing.  You'll get a real estate license, and then if you want to be a realtor, you'll then have  to pay money, take an oath, literally take an oath, and subscribe to this code of ethics,  which is above and beyond what's just legal.  It also sets ethical standards.  Now if you look here on pages 30 and 31, there are three levels of membership that you'll  get when you decide to become a realtor.  Now what does this cost?  Call it $1,000 to $1,100 over the course of a year.  Now a lot of people hear that and they say, well, doesn't the broker pay for that?  Yeah, the broker pays for the company, and then each individual associate licensee also  pays their share.  Now that's a lot of money, right?  $1,000, $1,100.  Your question naturally is going to be, well, what do I get for my money?  Well there's three big things that I would say.  Now there's probably several dozen things you could say if I was trying to pitch you  on why you should become a realtor, and I think you should.  But there's three things that are kind of big, the big deals about being a realtor.  One thing about being a realtor that is cool is you get MLS access.  So you get to search all the properties for sale, you get to search historical data, etc.  Now a lot of people say, well, I don't need the MLS.  I'll just search Redfin or Trulia or Zillow or Realtor.com, and I'll get MLS data anyway.  That's kind of true, but you don't get full, deep, root-level MLS access if you're just  searching on Yahoo Real Estate or on Trulia.com, so you get root MLS access.  And you can actually upload listings to the MLS.  You can't add data to the MLS through Redfin or Zillow or Trulia.  You've got to be an MLS member in order to do it, so you get full MLS access.  The second thing that you get when you're a realtor is you get something called ZipForms.  And ZipForms is a contract generation software, so when somebody says, hey, I want to sell  my house or I want to buy that house, you don't just open up Microsoft Word and start  typing up a letter to the owner, you have preprinted forms.  You get access to those forms and that library by becoming a realtor.  The third thing that you get that's important is you get a SupraKey.  Now a SupraKey is an electronic key that opens up lockboxes that have keys for the homes  that are for sale in them.  So those are the three big things that you get when you're a realtor.  You get MLS access, you get ZipForms, and you get a SupraKey to open up property.  Now should you ever lend your SupraKey out?  Under no circumstances, under no circumstances should you let someone else use your SupraKey  because any time that key accesses a lockbox, that leaves a thumbprint on the box.  So if something comes up missing and that report is run on the box, it's going to show  that you accessed that, not the knucklehead that you let borrow your key.  So make sure you never, and by the way, it's against the terms of service for Supra also  to let someone else use your key.  So because you have a real estate license, does this automatically make you a realtor?  Of course not.  You have to pay the fee, join the National Association of Realtors, the California Association  of Realtors, and you'll also have a local association to which you belong.  Maybe you're from Orange County, it's the Orange County Association of Realtors.  Maybe if you're in Beverly Hills, it's the Beverly Hills Association, or the Pasadena  Foothills Association, or the Arcadia Association, but there's a local organization, there's  a state organization, and there's a national organization.  And roughly that'll cost you, call it $1,100 over the course of a year.  It is illegal and unethical for you to claim that you are a realtor when you're not.  So you can't use the realtor logo, you can't call yourself a realtor unless you're a member  of the organization that bears that name.  Now for a long time, this is kind of a dark period of the real estate world's history,  and that is for a long time, until civil rights, minorities were not allowed to join the National  Association of Realtors.  So if you look here at the middle of page number 31, you'll see something called NAREP,  or the National Association of Real Estate Brokers.  This was formed by predominantly minority real estate agents, and they formed NAREP.  Members of NAREP are called realtists.  Now that organization is still around today, but most people are realtors, because of course,  there's no discrimination in terms of who can and cannot join NAR and CAR and your local  association.  But if the test were to ask you, members of the National Association of Real Estate Brokers  are known as realtists, members of the National Association of Realtors are called realtors.  Either way, it is illegal and unethical to claim that you are a member of that trade  organization if you're not truly a member of the organization that bears that name.  Now one thing that I do want to share with you here at the middle of page number 30 is  something called the recovery account.  Now the Department of Real Estate has money set aside, funded by licensees, to cover real  estate agents in case they screw over a member of the public and can't pay.  Let me give you an example of this.  Let's say that you misrepresent the income on a building, right?  You lie deliberately, commit fraud, and you lie to a buyer about the amount of income  that a property produces.  That buyer is naturally going to be pissed and they're going to sue you.  Now let's say that that buyer sues you and they win.  Now they have a judgment against you.  Now in response to this judgment, let's say that you just lost that lawsuit for $65,000.  In response to that, you do two things.  You file bankruptcy and flee the country, essentially rendering that judgment worthless.  The Department of Real Estate has a unit set up called the recovery account and any member  of the public can knock on that door as long as two things have happened.  Number one, a real estate licensee has screwed him out of some money and they have lost the  lawsuit so the licensee has a judgment against them from a member of the public.  And number two, there is evidence that that judgment is uncollectible.  So they've said, hey look, I've tried to collect this.  I can't get it from the agent.  Help me.  The recovery account is set up.  Now at the middle of page number 30, there's two numbers that you need to know about the  recovery account.  One of these is the number of $50,000.  The maximum amount that the recovery account will pay out to cover something you screwed  up is $50,000.  So in the case of $65,000 in my story, $50,000 of that the government, the real estate commissioner  is going to pay to that client.  They're going to be screwed on the $15,000 generally, but they'll get $50,000 of it back.  Maximum amount per transaction, $50,000.  The other number is $250,000.  The maximum amount that the recovery account will pay out to cover something you screwed  up for your whole life is $250,000.  Now the truth is, thank goodness, your license will be revoked way before you get close to  that $250,000 figure, but the maximum amount that the recovery account will pay out to  cover a licensee, $250,000 for your whole life.  The maximum for one transaction is $50,000.  So again, keep that in mind.  The public, the government, the Bureau of Real Estate has cash set aside.  Now how is it funded?  It's funded from us every time we pay to take the real estate exam.  Hopefully that's only once.  A portion of it gets swept away into the recovery account.  Every time you renew your license, a portion of it gets swept away into this recovery account.  And there's millions of dollars sitting there to cover the public against real estate licensees  that cannot pay when they lost a lawsuit. 