 Hey, how's it going? In this video, I want to introduce the 3 best time management habits  you can do in 1 minute to save you hours every week.  1. Setting a time limit for tasks This is based on Parkinson's law,  which states that work expands so as to fill the time available for its completion.  In other words, if you have an hour to complete a task, it will take you an hour to do it.  However, if you only have 30 minutes to complete the same task,  you will likely be able to focus and get it done in that time frame.  This is because by setting a time limit, you can help ensure that you're using your time wisely  and not letting tasks drag on longer than they need to.  So next time you're facing a daunting task,  try setting a focus timer and see how much more efficiently you can get it done.  There are many types of focus timers out there.  If you prefer analog, you can get a timer like this one on Amazon.  Or I know some people use hand timers because they look nice.  But if you prefer digital timers, there are many Pomodoro timer apps.  Personally, I like to use a timer on my laptop  because I want to avoid touching my phone as much as I can.  Clockify is a great app which has a good free plan.  But if you want something a little fancier, you can use Rise, which is my favourite time tracker.  2. Go smaller The most common reason why we  procrastinate on a task is that it's actually a project, not a task.  For example, build a website is not a task. It's a project involving multiple steps.  This is why it's often helpful to break down big tasks into smaller, more manageable steps.  By taking one step at a time, you can stay focused and avoid getting bogged down in the details.  Additionally, breaking down a big task into smaller steps can help you to better track  your progress and feel a sense of accomplishment as you check items off your to-do list.  You can do this in your notebook or notepad.  Write a project and break it down into smaller, specific steps.  One of my mantras is James Clear's Go Smaller.  Whenever you're having a problem, think about a way to break it down.  This applies to not just time management, but almost everything in life.  3. Use time blocking What is time blocking?  It's a method of time management that involves setting aside specific periods of time to complete  specific tasks. This helps to eliminate distractions and get more things done.  Time blocking creates what psychologists call an implementation intention.  This simply means that when we time block something, we are more likely to actually  do it because we know what we'll do and when we'll do it.  So how do you time block?  It's simple.  First, write out all the stuff you want to get done on a sheet of paper or your notepad.  Then open your calendar and allocate blocks of time to each task.  Make sure to leave some buffer time in between tasks in case one takes longer than expected.  Also, don't try to do everything on your to-do list because there are always more  things to do than how much you can actually do in a day.  Personally, I like to use something called the 1-2-3 method.  Pick one big important task, two medium ones and three small miscellaneous ones.  I talk about this in another video if you're curious.  Implementing these habits may take some practice but eventually they will become your second nature.  Thanks for watching and make sure to subscribe if you like this video. 