 🎵  Here's a scenario for you.  You just spent this wonderful Sunday at the local aquarium,  and you saw a bunch of exotic fish, and you got to see their behavior.  And your daughter gets so excited on the way home,  she tells you about the aquarium she has in her school.  Now, later that night, there's a segment on divers getting up close and personal with sharks.  This shark is munching down on the bait bag right now.  And your son gets so excited, he goes,  and your son gets so excited, he goes online and follows the conversation live.  The fact is, an awful lot of science learning goes on outside of the classroom.  It goes on in libraries and museums and nature centers and after-school groups,  and sometimes in conversations around the dinner table.  We're really expanding our idea about where people can learn science  and how they can kind of put their knowledge of science together across their lives,  putting together what they learn in school with what they learn outside of school.  We've come to understand that proficiency in one aspect of science  is very closely related to proficiency in another, like strands of a rope.  The strands of scientific proficiency are intertwined.  The strands support each other,  so that progress along one strand promotes progress along another.  The six strands allow me to find a road map on the experiences I want to provide  or experiences I want to have for myself.  So it's this nice lens for broadening how we think about what it means to learn science  and the kinds of experiences we provide to people to learn science.  Interest, motivation, excitement.  That part of the strand is probably the easy one to recognize.  If you get an amateur astronomer out there in a starry night  to not only observe through the telescope,  but then share that with people at a star party,  excitedly speaking about how wonderful it is to see the moons of Jupiter  through that telescope and say,  look, this is not just an image of Jupiter.  This is Jupiter.  Strand 2, Understanding Scientific Knowledge,  really emphasizes a deeper understanding,  understanding the relationships between ideas  and being able to provide more sophisticated explanations.  So it's not just the factoid answer,  it's really explanations about that answer.  So if you learn something about a dinosaur and you use something about evolution,  you might come to understand how it is that the dinosaur could be related to birds.  While this strand includes what is usually categorized as content,  it focuses on concepts and the links between them rather than on discrete facts.  And it also includes the ability to use that knowledge in a person's own life.  The point of being able to reason from evidence  is the notion that science is changing all the time.  The nature of science lies in the fact that it looks at evidence  and it corrects itself, it builds on things that are solid,  new ideas are being created,  and what people should do when they're proficient in science  and competent in science is understand that reasoning,  making logical arguments based on evidence, is helpful.  And many informal environments give people the opportunity to test,  to explore, to examine, to manipulate,  to get a feel for the physical and natural world.  And it's that sort of experience that allows the visitor  to actually engage in scientific reasoning.  We can learn new things about the world  and it might mean we need to update our explanations of the world.  Often historical examples can be a really good way of helping people  to understand how scientific knowledge emerges over time  and is reshaped as new evidence comes in.  There are many, many opportunities, both informal as well as mostly informal settings,  that allow people to take part  and thereby become much more knowledgeable  about the way in which having scientific tools and language  helps communicate and do work.  In terms of language, we don't just mean the wacky terms  that scientists come up with.  It's also the way you frame an argument.  The strength of your argument rests on the strength of your evidence  and how well your explanation fits the data.  By engaging in scientific activities,  people actually gain greater facility with the language of science.  Terms like hypothesis and control group and experiment and data analysis  start to feel more familiar  and non-scientists can gain entry into the culture of the scientific community.  Again, it's this idea that science is for everyone,  that we don't want to exclude anybody  and that to give people an opportunity to be part of science  in as much as they want and as little as they want,  based on their own preference  rather than based on prejudice or fear  or a sense of lack of empowerment.  The question between formal learning and informal learning is  to what degree does formal learning provide you with a foundation  that allows you to continue an individual lifelong learning path  that is then lifelong, as they say, life-wide and life-deep.  You don't, in every science learning experience at every moment,  have to highlight all six strands.  They can sort of come in and out and trade off across your experiences.  It's looking over the whole arc of time.  Informal environments have often been recognized  as critically important in developing positive,  science-specific interests, attitudes, and identities.  Designers and educators can realize those goals for people of all ages  by portraying science as a social, lived experience  relevant to people's lives.  The fact is, learning science outside the school is fun,  it's exciting, it's engaging,  and we now know that all of those qualities  are essential to effective science learning.  For more information visit www.FEMA.gov 