 In here, we are doing something different.  In a traditional classroom, students are usually the consumers of knowledge.  The teacher gives them the information, they digest it, and then they use it later on.  In my class, it looks a little bit different.  We are makers of knowledge.  This is like your wilderness, like your playroom.  What do you want to do?  What do you want to solve?  What's the next problem you want to attack and make it happen?  As we know, manufacturing is growing really rapidly at this point.  So making sure that these students are prepared for careers that may not exist even today  is what my priority is.  You're starting from something, sketching out an idea on paper, and then we get that  sketch digitally converted and then brought into Easel and Image Trace.  Now you've taken this thing that you did by hand, and now you've got it in some sort  of workspace, and you can do things with it in that workspace that you can't do with it  on paper.  You're able to now manipulate it and get sort of a visual representation of what this thing  might look like, but you're still in this software space.  It's still this virtual world, and it's really cool.  It's not made yet, and you're almost there, but you're not there yet.  The learning curve is very, very short for Easel because it's such a simple app.  As soon as they open it, 5, 10, 15 minutes, they're ready to create stuff on Easel and  then sending it to Carvey, making it awesome.  This is all happens in here, in a class, because of these tools and access to these tools now  being possible.  Before, it would be, hey, can we get a $300,000 machine in here?  The answer is usually no, especially in a school, in a public school, too.  3D carving is also great because of the speed that students can make stuff with.  They jump on a computer, it's very quick to design, it's very quick to send to the Carvey,  and then the process of carving, comparing to 3D printing, compares much, much more last  time than it would take them to build something in a 3D printer.  And I think that's probably the most mesmerizing thing about it.  If it's just going to carve a square, you might think, okay, it carved a square, but  to see this thing with such flow and precision following the design they had, and then they've  got all of a sudden this perfect replication of what their idea was in physical form.  Carvey really enables students to take their ideas to real life.  It's really great because it's very safe for students to use.  It allows them to make a lot of things in a short period of time.  And here we have this beautiful sort of Venn diagram middle of art and engineering and  math and physics and sciences and programming and hardware stuff and manipulating physical  things and turning virtual ideas into reality.  And I think that what tools like Easel and Carvey are doing is showing kids that there's  a creative aspect to technology that they're not used to seeing.  They're proud of it, and they're like, they're re-proud of it when they see it again.  So they see and they know what they went through to make it happen, and they can hold it, and  they can sort of relive the creative experience that they had.  I'm Jeff Solon.  I am a computer science and making teacher and robotics coach and father and musician  and husband and terrible skateboarder and beard griller in the Chicago Public Schools  at Lane Tech High School.  My name is Peter Wichacek, and I am a 6th grade design teacher at Pulaski International  School of Chicago, and we make stuff. 