 Hello guys, welcome back. This is Adam and in this episode of Azure Fundamentals,  we're covering one of the most important processes when starting with the cloud,  which is cloud adoption and how Microsoft helps us on this journey. Stay tuned.  Today we will learn about cloud adoption framework in the context of Azure platform.  As part of this exam and this episode, you should be able to understand and describe  the key elements of cloud adoption framework and how does it help with the adoption process itself.  Before we move to the framework itself, well, let's start with what cloud adoption is.  Cloud adoption is simply a strategic move by your organization, your company,  in order to leverage cloud in their current business. And this is done simply because  cloud has a lot of things to offer to accelerate your business and allow you to innovate and build  solutions faster, therefore provide more value to your customers. And cloud adoption framework is a  set of tools, best practices, guidelines, and documentation created by Microsoft to help  companies like yours with this journey. This framework is what I will be focusing on today,  but please know that I've spent over 40 hours trying to compress this very lengthy, very complex  process into high-level overview. So sometimes I might oversimplify some topics, but if any topic  will pique your interest during this episode, feel free to dive into the details. I will include a lot  of links in the video description and on my website. That said, let's start with the framework itself.  Cloud adoption framework is divided into stages and the first stage that we'll look at today  is called strategy. Strategy is simply building organizational alignment for moving to the cloud  to begin the cloud adoption. The first step in the strategy is called motivations. During this step,  you want to answer the question, why move? As such, you want to meet with your key stakeholders  and executives in your company to document what are the motivations behind the cloud adoption.  And to do that, you need to understand what are your motivation triggers.  The most common motivation triggers are either migration triggers, so moving your current  infrastructure to the cloud so that you can gain some cost savings, you can reduce the complexity  of your current infrastructure, maybe you want to optimize your current operations or increase  business agility by having more flexible approach to managing infrastructure. Another motivation  trigger is called innovation. In this category, you want to leverage the cloud and its features  to provide some improvements to your company. For example, maybe reaching a global scale or  improving customer experience. Maybe you want to disrupt new markets or create new products and  services. All of those are easier to do if you start using the cloud with all of its features.  Of course, it is up to you to decide which kind of features would be useful to you, your products,  and your customers. Once we understand why move, the next thing that you need to do is so-called  business outcomes. In the business outcomes, you want to answer the question, what to measure? So  what would be your criteria of success that would support your move to the cloud? And this measure  has to be a defined, concise, observable outcome for your company. Typical things might include  an increase in revenue and profit, or a cost reduction, or maybe something more business-oriented  like having a global access and reaching new markets. But it is important that this measure  can be calculated and can be observed so that you can define it and track it. In this process, you  will want to meet with your business leaders from the finance, IT infrastructure, and application  groups. When we know what to measure and why do we move to the cloud, next thing is business  justification. During this step, we need to understand what is my return of investment,  because your company is there to make money, and it is important to track it, and this is what this  step is all about. As part of the business justification, you will want to develop a  business case that will create a financial model that supports both motivations and the outcomes.  So this business justification will use the input from the two previous steps. There are many tools  provided by Microsoft that support you in the process of building this financial model. For  example, a person like a chief financial officer in your company might want to use Azure TCO, which  stands for Total Cost of Ownership Calculator, to calculate the cost of your current on-premise  infrastructure. With Azure Pricing Calculator, you can estimate the monthly cost of Azure infrastructure.  And once you start deploying things to Azure, Azure Cost Management will give you a full visibility  on the existing resources and their cost. Those three tools that you see here will be covered in  more detail in future episodes, but this might be a question on the exam, so make sure to remember  that those are the key elements used in the business justification phase. And lastly, as part  of the strategy, we want to decide on the first project. This first project will help you align  your motivations and technical efforts. And to choose the right first project, you need to follow  two criterias. First criteria is so-called business criteria. In here, you want to find the project  that is first of all currently operating, so the project that is currently working in your company  and has a dedicated owner. But this is very important that this owner and this application  has a strong motivation to move to the cloud because it sees its benefits. This is important  because the engagement of the owner will be very important across every single step of the process.  And additionally, there are technical criteria. You want to find a project that has minimum amount  of dependencies and assets. This is because if you choose a project that is too big, it will take you  too long to validate your strategy. In summary, our first stage strategy is about defining business  justification and the outcomes. Once this stage is completed, we move to the planning phase.  In the planning phase, there are again few steps that we need to follow. The first step is digital  estate. This is so-called inventory of assets. You want to review what you currently have in your  company and what you should do with it. And that decision, that rationalization is so-called  decided based on this five R's of rationalization rule. So for each digital asset that you will find  in your company, you want to assign one R. First, we have rehost. Rehost means that we take existing  application and we move it to the cloud without any changes. This typically means move existing  applications into infrastructure as a service. So deploy this into virtual machine or a container.  Another R is for refactor. So you want to make a small changes to your existing application code  base in order to fit it into existing platform as a service offerings in Azure. For example, if you  have a web application running on a virtual machine and this web application uses SQL Server,  maybe with a little bit changes in your code, you can fit it to Azure App Service and Azure SQL  to take advantage of the platform as a service offering in Azure. Another option is called  re-architect. For the re-architect, you will need to make complex changes to your code base. This is  used if you want to introduce new services in your application. For example, you might see that  a key vault is very good service in Azure and you want to introduce it in your application.  Therefore, you might want to re-architect existing ones to take advantage of those security services  in Azure. But another reason for re-architecture is when your application strongly depends on the  physical infrastructure in your company, so it is incompatible with the cloud. So in short, you use  re-architect to implement new features or fix incompatible applications. Another one is rebuild.  For this rationale, we create application from scratch. This could be also called new. So we look  at existing application, we see that effort of introducing this in the cloud is too big or maybe  the code is too old and we decide to rebuild this from scratch to take full advantage of what cloud  has to offer. And the last one is called replace. In replace, you want to look at every single  application that you have and see what cloud has to offer already. Maybe not only Azure but Office  365 has a lot of software as a service offerings. Maybe there's offering that completely replaces  the functionality that your current application provides, in which case you might want to drop  the current application and take this software as a service offering. So basically, in your company,  go through every project that you have, assign one of those Rs for every project that you can,  and then create a plan out of this. Next step is initial organization alignment. During this,  when the plan is being established, you want to meet with the key stakeholders in your organization  to make sure that everyone is aligned and every key person supports this adoption plan. During this  step, the alignment of people who will make this plan a reality is very important. It is also a  step where you map your people to the capabilities, so you know who should be engaged when. And once  your organization is aligned, you will create skills readiness plan. During this stage, you want  to review your current skill sets in your company and create a plan that will address the gaps,  because in the cloud, you will need to have a lot of new skills in your company across  different teams and different people, and this plan will take care of that. And once you do all  those things, simply put it into so-called cloud adoption plan. This plan will be used to manage  the change across your digital estate, skills, and the organization and the processes. To summarize,  in the planning stage, we want to create actionable plan for our cloud adoption. From there, we move to  the next stage called ready. So readiness stage is all about preparing your first Azure environment.  To do that, you start with Azure setup guide. So you read Azure documentation on how the initial  environment should look like. You want to become familiar with the tools and approaches that  will help you create this first Azure environment. Also, at this stage, you will want to choose  which type of Azure subscription should you use and which is the best for your company. And once  you have everything prepared, you start creating your first Azure environment. This is so-called  Azure landing zone. This will be your first Azure environment. It will be completely created out of  Microsoft guidelines and it will allow you to set up a code base for future improvements.  An advice here is to use infrastructure as a code approach so that everything can be later changed,  expanded, updated, but everything will be consistent and very easy to redeploy if needed.  And once the landing zone is created, you want to extend it even further to match your organizational  needs and allow for the smooth cloud transition. One important thing is that, and this will be  shown across this entire process and a lot of places in Cloud Adoption Framework, is  as you go through those stages, always check the best practices. You just want to be sure that  this initial landing zone and the expansion goes according to the best practices, because later on  it's very hard to change things if you will create bad platform architecture. To summarize the ready  stage, we want to prepare Azure environment. Since we have the plan to adopt the cloud, our next step  is adopt. Because all our previous stages were preparing us to move to the cloud,  adopt is where we start doing that. In the adoption, we again have few steps.  But adoption splits into two separate streams. One is called migrate. When we were talking about  motivations, one of the most common motivation triggers was migrations. And this is why adoption  is also split into migrations and innovations. The first step that you want to do in this stage  is do your first migration. During this step, you want to migrate your first project to the cloud.  This is so that you can read all the guides that Microsoft prepared for the migration paths.  You want to familiarize yourself with the native tools and approaches in Azure that will help you  to do that migration. But the important part here is not only the migration, but also the learning  curve. Because after this first migration, you need to familiarize yourself with a migration scenarios.  When moving to the cloud, you will see that there's plenty of different scenarios, different  workload that needs to be migrated. For example, migrating virtual machines is completely different  from migrating data services, or maybe web applications. Microsoft has plenty guides that  are available for you to use during this process. So you need to familiarize yourself with those  and prepare migration scenarios for your own company. Just like with the previous step,  remember to also check best practices. Because migrating is one thing, but also setting everything  up is another. So make sure that your architectural decision will follow the best practices for each  tool that you decided to use in the tool chain. Because all those tools and decisions that you  make will accelerate other migrations in your own company. That's why it's so important. And lastly,  remember about process improvements. Migration is very process-heavy activity, so it will take a  very long time to migrate everything to the cloud. Therefore, being able to evaluate how your current  migration is going, what are the things that should be improved, is a very important aspect of this  process. And besides migration, you also have innovation. In the innovation part of the adoption  process, you want to make so-called business value consensus. So it's a decision that you need to make  on a technical solution and identify a hypothetical customer need and map it to a business value that  you can provide by building this solution. And then match it and map that value to your cloud strategy.  Once you map this value to a strategy, the next part is the innovation guide. In the innovation  guide, you will decide on the tools that are available in the cloud to accelerate development  of this solution and build this minimum valuable product, MVP. Similarly to migration, remember  about best practices, because your architectural decisions should follow them, because they will  be your solid foundation for the other applications. Again, similarly to migration, remember about  process improvements. You want to go through each iteration where you create this application  to make sure that your customers and your teams provide feedback. In Azure, there's a lot of tools  like Azure DevOps or GitHub, which help you with these processes. In summary, adopt stage is about  implementing existing plan and either migrating or innovating, or maybe both. One thing that I want  to note here is that those three stages, plan, ready, and adopt, are the key stages that define  cloud adoption according to cloud adoption framework. So if there will be a question during  the exam, what are the three main stages that the cloud adoption helps with? Are those three, because  all of the other stages that we'll be talking about are the supporting processes and supporting  stages for this entire framework. Speaking of which, the next two processes that we need to talk  about are governance and management. And those processes span across all those three stages,  because regardless of what is your current stage, you need to start to govern and manage your  environment from the earlier stages until the very end. For the governance and management part, there  are two main things that you need to do. First of all, you need to define what are the governance  solutions. But for the solutions here, remember about three important things. First of all, the  solutions that you decide needs to meet your business needs. But at the same time, they need  to provide the agility so you can easily adopt the cloud. You don't want to constrain yourself.  But while providing the agility, the most important part here is you need to control the risks.  So you need to make sure that your environment will stay compliant and stay secure at all times.  And once the solutions are defined and the platform is ready, you can hand it over to cloud  operations, whose responsibilities are to provide the stability and manage the cost of the platform.  This is very important because those two need to work together, because you want your environment  to be stable, but also you want to control the costs, because you want to meet your business  commitments as part of your financial model. So in summary, governance is about making sure that  your environment stays compliant, it will be controlled and secure, whereas management is about  ongoing operation and optimizations of your current environment. But I want to talk about  one more thing here, which is called organize. It's not a stage per se, but it is an alignment  that needs to go across this entire process. So you need to be sure that across this entire process  people will have assigned roles and responsibilities. This is because this entire cloud adoption  framework will involve a lot of people, a lot of stakeholders, a lot of teams. So you need to make  sure that everyone knows what to do. One of the ways to achieve that is to create this RICI matrix,  which stands for Responsible, Accountable, Consulted and Informed, so that every team knows what to do  and when during this entire process. In the documentation for cloud adoption framework,  every single step is laid out very nicely. You can scroll through this documentation to find this  lifecycle and this diagram that we've been talking about today. And notice that for every single stage  on this diagram, you will find a section on the left-hand side, which goes from the overview, giving  you high-level overview of the current stage, and then goes through each single point that is required  for you to do. There's plenty of links, plenty of guidelines and references to reference architectures  for Azure to help you with this adoption process. Remember that this is a living document, so it'll  be constantly changing. As soon as you will start adopting the cloud for your company, definitely go  back to this document and check it again. To summarize, cloud adoption framework is a set of  tools, best practices, guidelines and documentation prepared by Microsoft to help customers with the  cloud adoption process in the context of Azure platform. This framework is divided into multiple  stages. The first stage is called strategy. During this stage, you want to understand why you want to  move to the cloud and how do you provide the business value from that move. Then you move to  the planning phase, where you prepare actionable plan based on your current digital assets in your  company, so the current project base and current solution base in your company. But also, this plan  needs to support the current strategy. Next stage is called ready. In this stage, you prepare your  Azure environment, so-called Azure landing zone, but you also want to prepare and align both users  and processes in order to start adopting the cloud, because your next stage is adopt. This is the point  where you start adopting moving to the cloud and either migrate, innovate or both. But make sure to  do it based on existing plan, so this is simply an implementation of existing plan created in the  previous stage. As those three stages, plan, ready and adopt are happening, make sure to govern your  Azure environment, so align compliance and security standards, but also the tools that will support  you in this process. But at the same time, make sure to manage your environment, so manage, monitor, but  also optimize the environment, when it comes to stability, but also cost. And the organized part is  not a stage per se, but make sure that everyone knows what to do and when to do it. One of the  best ways to implement that is using RACI matrix. One thing that I didn't mention, because it would  have to be on every single slide and every single point, is that documentation and proper communication  of every single stage here is critical requirement for this process. So make sure that as you move  along, everyone knows what to do and everything is very well documented. Lastly, as I mentioned,  Microsoft Documentation for Cloud Adoption Framework is a living document, that means it  will be constantly changing. Therefore, if you are going through the cloud adoption process in your  company, at every stage, every now and then, make sure to go back there and check if anything has been  changed. Most of the time, the changes are not because something was bad, but because there were  new good practices that were found or maybe new tools that will support you even further. So it  is only advantageous for you to check it out. All the materials for this episode can be found on  episode 33 on my website. But please remember that this episode is just an essence of what cloud  adoption really is. There's plenty more to learn, so if your company is migrating to the cloud,  definitely check the available documentation and available tools. If you like my work, if you like  those tutorials, support the channel by subscribing. And as always, see you in the next one. 