 Hi, this is Tom from xerodefinals.com. In this video, I'm going to be going through  diverticular disease and you can find written notes on this topic at xerodefinals.com slash  diverticulosis or in the general surgery section of the xerodefinals surgery book.  So let's jump straight in. A diverticulum or plural diverticular is a pouch or pocket  in the bowel wall usually ranging in size from 0.5 to 1 cm. Diverticulosis refers to  the presence of diverticular without inflammation or infection. Diverticulosis may be referred  to as diverticular disease when patients experience symptoms. Diverticulitis refers to inflammation  and infection of diverticular. Let's talk about the pathophysiology. The wall of the  large intestine contains a layer of muscle called the circular muscle. The points along  the bowel where this muscle layer is penetrated by blood vessels are areas of weakness. Increased  pressure in the lumen over time can cause a gap to form in these areas of the circular  muscle. These gaps allow the mucosa to herniate through the muscle layer and pouches to form  which we call diverticular. Diverticular do not form in the rectum because it has an  outer longitudinal muscle layer that completely surrounds the diameter of the rectum adding  extra support. In the rest of the colon there are three longitudinal muscles that run along  the colon forming strips or ribbons called tinea coli. The tinea coli do not surround  the entire diameter of the colon and the areas that are not covered by tinea coli are vulnerable  to the development of diverticular. Let's talk about diverticulosis. Diverticulosis  is sometimes described in layman's terms as wear and tear of the bowel. The most commonly  affected section of the bowel is the sigmoid colon, however it can affect the entire large  bowel in some patients. Small bowel diverticular are also possible but much less common. Diverticulosis  is very common with increased age. Low fibre diets, obesity and the use of non-steroidal  anti-inflammatory drugs or NSAIDs are also risk factors. The use of NSAIDs increases  the risk of diverticular haemorrhage. Diverticulosis is often diagnosed incidentally on a colonoscopy  or a CT scan. Treatment is not necessary where the patient is asymptomatic, however advice  regarding a high fibre diet and weight loss is appropriate. Diverticulosis may cause lower  left abdominal pain, constipation or rectal bleeding. Management is with increased fibre  in the diet and bulk forming laxatives, for example ispigula husk. Stimulant laxatives  for example Senna should be avoided as they can make matters worse. Surgery to remove  the affected area may be required where there are significant symptoms. Let's talk about  acute diverticulitis. Diverticulitis refers to inflammation in the diverticular. Acute  diverticulitis presents with pain and tenderness in the left iliac fossa or the lower left  abdomen, fever, diarrhoea or loose stools, nausea and vomiting, rectal bleeding, a palpable  abdominal mass if an abscess has formed and raised inflammatory markers for example CRP  and white blood cell count. The NICE Clinical Knowledge Summaries last updated in January  2021 suggest management of uncomplicated diverticulitis in primary care with oral Coamoxaclav for  at least 5 days, analgesia, particularly avoiding non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs  and opiates if possible, only taking clear liquids and avoiding solid food until symptoms  improve, usually within 2-3 days and follow up within 2 days to review the symptoms. Patients  with severe pain or complications require admission to hospital. Hospital treatment  involves management as with any patient with an acute abdomen or sepsis including nil by  mouth or clear fluids only, IV antibiotics, IV fluids, analgesia, urgent investigations  for example a CT scan and urgent surgery may be required if there are complications.  Complications of acute diverticulitis are perforation of the bowel, peritonitis, a peridiverticular  abscess, a large haemorrhage requiring blood transfusions, fistula, for example between  the colon and the bladder or the vagina, and ileus or bowel obstruction. If you like this  video consider joining the 0 to Finals Patreon account where you get early access to these  videos before they appear on YouTube. You also get access to my comprehensive course  on how to learn medicine and do well in medical exams, digital flashcards for rapidly testing  the key facts you need for medical exams, early access to the 0 to Finals podcast episodes  and question podcasts which you can use to test your knowledge on the go. Thanks for  watching and I'll see you in the next video. 