 Well, welcome everyone.  It's so great to have you all joining us this evening.  And we're so excited for the opportunity  to present to you tonight.  I'm preparing for those pharmacology questions  that are on both your nursing exams and on the NCLEX.  So here we have a little agenda.  And in tonight's session,  we will practice answering pharmacology test questions  and we will review rationales and strategies.  We've selected practice questions  based on common prescribed meds  and what we know you will most likely be asked on NCLEX.  So on this next slide,  let's start by reviewing some general medication guidelines.  So first, medication absorption,  distribution, metabolism, and excretion  are affected by age and physiological processes.  So it's important to remember that the older client  and the neonate and infant  are at greater risk for toxicity than an adult is.  This is an important point.  If there is an age specified in a question,  be sure that you pay attention to the age  and think about physiological processes  related to growth and development and aging.  So next, antacids are not usually administered  with medication because the antacid  will affect the absorption of the med.  So don't select the option that indicates  giving the client an antacid with the medication  or within two hours of medication administration.  Next, grapefruit juice is not usually administered  with medication because it contains a substance  that will impede the absorption of the med.  So don't select grapefruit or grapefruit juice  as an option if the question asks  what you should give when administering a medication.  Enteric-coated and sustained-release tablets  should not be crushed,  and also capsules should not be opened.  So if you have a question about a client  who has difficulty swallowing,  remember your best action is to see  if you can obtain a liquid form of the medication,  and if not, consult with the pharmacy  about an appropriate form of action  as far as crushing tablets or opening capsules.  Okay, so Angie's going to take over on this next slide.  Great, thank you, Linda.  Hi, everybody. You're welcome.  Okay, so just a few more guidelines,  and then we'll show you how to access  pharmacology and practice questions for pharmacology  in the Evolve resources.  So some general guidelines.  Nursing interventions always include  monitoring for intended effects,  side effects, adverse effects,  or toxic effects of the medication.  You want to focus on what the question is asking you.  Is the question asking about an intended effect  a side effect, an adverse effect, or a toxic effect?  Because that will make a difference  in how you're going to answer the question.  So let's break this down a bit further.  An intended effect is the therapeutic effect  that you want to happen.  For example, the intended effect of an antihypertensive  is to lower the blood pressure.  A side effect is one that can occur from a medication.  It's not usually directly harmful  and can often be prevented.  So for example, if you know that  codeine can cause constipation,  then stool softeners would be important  as well as teaching the client  about the importance of fluids and a high-fiber diet.  And so again, a side effect is not directly harmful.  It's more annoying than anything else.  Another example would be with your ACE inhibitors.  Cough is an annoying side effect, but it's not harmful,  but sometimes annoying to the point in which  the physician would need to change the medication  to a different one.  And then talking about adverse and toxic effects,  these are very much unwanted  and they can be life-threatening.  For example, an adverse effect  could be an allergic response to a medication.  And so you'd want to stop or withhold that medication  and report that event.  And then a toxic effect produces signs and symptoms,  but is also monitored potentially  via a laboratory test perhaps.  For example, in digoxin toxicity,  the client may experience GI disturbances  such as anorexia, nausea, or vomiting,  or possibly visual disturbances.  And this would alert you as the nurse of a problem  and it may lead you to suspect toxicity.  Then the digoxin level lab results will show  that the digoxin blood level is greater than two  in conventional units,  thus indicating or confirming the toxicity.  The nurse or client should never adjust  or change a medication dose,  abruptly stop taking a medication  or discontinue a medication.  The nurse may withhold a medication  if they suspect that the client is experiencing  an adverse or a toxic effect of a medication,  but then the nurse should immediately contact the physician  if either of these effects occurs.  So for example,  if you know the signs of digoxin toxicity in your client,  and your client is due for their next dose of digoxin,  you would withhold that medication  until you did a further assessment  and you determine the cause of the client's symptoms.  And then the nurse may also withhold the medication as well  if specific parameters are prescribed  and withholding that medication  is indicated based on those parameters.  An example of this might be  if the physician wrote to hold metoprolol,  which is a beta blocker,  for a systolic blood pressure below 90.  In general, the client needs to avoid consuming alcohol  and avoid smoking.  So no smoking, no use of alcohol  when you're answering test questions.  Don't be tempted to select an option  that reads something like,  the client can have an ounce of alcohol a day  or they can smoke one cigarette a day.  There's no smoking, no alcohol on any exam.  And then learn generic names.  Trade names are generally not going to be seen  on the NCLEX.  And so you'll not see a name like Lasix,  but instead you would see furosemide.  So during nursing school  and in preparation for your NCLEX,  you want to be sure to learn the generic names.  All right, and so then moving forward,  we want to share some smart study approaches.  Our first smart study approach  is that you access the NCSBN website  at www.ncsbn.org  and download your RN or your PN test plan  as a study guide.  It actually lists all of the nursing activities  that you'll be tested on.  And then also this website has many valuable resources  for NCLEX candidates.  And so we highly recommend visiting the site.  If you look at the RN test plan  and the PN test plan side by side,  you really wouldn't know many differences.  Most relate to intravenous therapies  and some management roles.  As far as pharmacology,  the RN NCLEX test plan dedicates 12 to 18% of questions  to pharmacology and intravenous therapies.  And then the PN,  they dedicate 10 to 16% to these areas.  And then next,  practicing test questions is the key to success.  We recommend that you practice as many questions  as you can before a nursing exam.  And then of course, before taking the NCLEX.  And in fact, we recommend that you practice  at least 3,500 to 4,000 questions  before taking the NCLEX.  And we want to stress the importance of reading rationales  and strategies for every question.  This will really help with answering future questions  about similar content.  We also recommend starting with using study mode in Evolve,  which I'll show you shortly,  because this mode will provide you an immediate answer,  rationale and test taking strategy  after you submit your selected answer.  And then once you've mastered the content,  you can then move to the exam modes.  And so how do you locate these questions and resources?  You can use smart and study approaches in Evolve  to really target and review  depending on which medication classifications  you're studying.  The comprehensive review for the NCLEX RN and PN  and the Q&A review for both the NCLEX RN and PN  have the capabilities that I'm going to show you shortly.  But first I'll turn it back over to Linda.  Thank you, Angela.  Okay, on this slide here,  we want to share with you some resources  that will be helpful while you're in nursing school  and preparing for those nursing exams  and in preparation for the NCLEX.  So on the top left, you'll see the strategies book,  and this is a fantastic resource for RN and PN students  that provides you with all of the specific strategies  for answering test questions  from how to avoid reading into questions  all the way to tips for prioritizing  and tips for answering pharmacology questions.  In fact, there's a specific chapter that focuses  just on pharmacology tips and strategies.  There's over 1,200 practice questions  and about 115 of them are farm questions.  So if your weakness is test taking  and how to answer the questions correctly,  this is a definite must book for you.  And then to the right of that,  you can see the comprehensive review book for the RN  with the PN version just below it.  And these books serve a dual purpose  and are great resources while you're in nursing school  and preparing for the NCLEX.  These books contain both content  and thousands of practice questions.  And you can select the practice questions  based on what you're learning in school,  such as maternity, PD, adult health, or your pharmacology.  And the RN book has over 1,000 pharmacology questions  and the PN book over 700 farm questions.  And then to the right of that,  the next resource is the RN and the PN Q&A review.  And these books contain all practice questions  different from the ones in the comp review books  and are higher level questions  that really challenge your clinical judgment abilities.  And as with the comp review book,  you can select farm questions based on body systems  such as cardiac meds, or even more specifically,  you can filter down to a medication classification  such as ACE inhibitors.  And there are well over 700 farm questions  in the RN and the PN Q&A books.  Then there's the online review,  which is designed based on the NCLEX test plan.  There's module content, excuse me,  module content reviews, lots of practice questions,  video lectures, self-check questions, plus much more.  And this is a great NCLEX prep tool.  And again, actually follows the NCLEX test plan.  So on this next slide,  we just wanted to quickly provide you  with a visual of what a farm chapter looks like  in the comprehensive review books  for both the RN and the PN.  So here we actually have an endocrine chapter  showing you some content on insulin, some boxes,  and a figure of insulin injection sites.  And then on this next slide,  we wanna show you a pharmacology chapter  in the strategies book.  And this page presents the differences  that Angela talked about between medications effects  and shows you many study tips  and provide you with a practice question.  So every question in this book  also provides a tip for the nursing student  that provides some key information  about the content of the question.  So now we're gonna move on to the next slide  and Angela is going to show you how to navigate and evolve.  So you can get those pharmacology questions that you need.  All right, so let me show you this here.  So this shows you what the Evolve resource screen looks like  and so once you get in here  and you log in using your Evolve username and password,  if you click study,  this is the study mode that I was referring to earlier,  you go to content area  and then we're talking about pharmacology.  So you hit the pharmacology dropdown  and you can see that it's organized  by body system for pharmacology.  And then we also take it one step further  and let's say you're working on cardiovascular medications  and you're gonna be tested on anticoagulants  and you're gonna be tested on beta blockers.  So then you can see you've got 54 practice questions  on those specific drug classifications  and students have told us that that's quite helpful  to be able to filter all the way down  to the drug classification  in terms of studying throughout their program.  And then just another quick example here,  let's say endocrine  and then you're gonna be doing insulin  and oral hypoglycemics for one of your exams.  So you can just study questions  on those specific medication classifications.  If you have an exam that's just on an entire body system,  then you could just focus on that as well.  All right, so we're gonna jump back into our presentation  and I'm gonna talk about a few very important things  before we start on our practice questions.  And we wanted to just remind you  that we have a list of the top 100 prescribed medications  in the United States.  And this is located on the last page  of the comprehensive review book.  And so be sure to review this  and be familiar with these medications.  And one thing I do wanna mention here  is that currently this list of the top 100 medications  is in the NCLEX-RN comprehensive review book  and it will be coming with the new edition  of the comp review for the NCLEX-PN.  So you'll be able to take advantage of that  when the new edition comes out.  All right, and then Linda,  I think you're gonna pick up from here.  Yes, this slide, we're very excited  to announce the publication of our new app.  So many students have been asking us  for an app for a while now.  And now we have the app to offer to you  as a way to prepare for your exams and the NCLEX.  And there are apps for both the RN and the PN resources.  So we encourage you all to take a moment  to download the Skyscape Saunders Review app  that's best suited for you.  And the QR code is here for you.  So there's practice questions  for all content areas on these apps.  But what we have is a pharmacology example  of what the app has to offer.  So you can see how to navigate  to the essential drugs from a list,  from the Q&A for the RN app home screen,  which will be the same process for any of the apps.  So you can click on each drug to see a broken down summary  of exactly what you will need to know on the NCLEX exam.  And as we've shown here, we have albuterol.  All of this information plus 400 practice questions  are included with the free version of the app.  Then you also have the option  to purchase the full version of the app  with thousands more practice questions  and additional content.  So as you can see, we've got lots of resources for you  to prepare for your nursing exams and the NCLEX.  So now we're gonna move on to some practice questions  and I'm gonna turn this over to Angela.  All right, let's jump right into this first practice question  on atorvastatin.  So I'll read the question first  and then Jenna will open up the polling  for you to practice the question.  Atorvastatin has been prescribed  and the nurse provides instructions to the client  about the medication.  Which statement by the client indicates the need  for further teaching?  So I'm gonna read it out loud for you.  So this is the patient's statement.  So the patient's statement says,  one, this medication will lower my cholesterol level.  Two, I need to have blood tests drawn  while I'm taking this medication.  Three, I won't need to be on a low fat diet  as long as I take this medication faithfully.  Or four, I need to talk to my doctor  before taking any over-the-counter medications.  Chose option three as the answer  and that in fact is the correct answer.  So very nice work on that.  So going over this a little bit,  atorvastatin is a reductase inhibitor  that's used to treat high cholesterol  and high triglyceride levels.  The client's instructed to follow a recommended diet,  usually a low fat diet  as an important component of the therapy.  Liver function tests  and cholesterol and triglyceride level determinations  will be performed periodically  while they're taking this medication.  And the client needs to be instructed  to consult with the physician  before taking any over-the-counter medications  because of that potential  for medication interactive effects to occur.  And so it's really important to note the strategic words  in the question, need for further teaching.  This phrase indicates a negative event query  and it asks you to select an option  that is an incorrect client statement.  So recalling the action of this medication  and using general guidelines  related to medication administration  will help to direct you to option three  as the correct option.  And then we have our next question on nitroglycerin.  This one happens to be a select all that apply question.  And so I don't believe we'll be able  to use the polling feature with this.  Do you have a poll?  Oh, we do have a poll.  Excellent, nevermind.  Disregard that, you can poll with this question.  So I'll go ahead and read it first  and then we'll open the poll.  A hospitalized client with coronary artery disease  complains of substernal chest pain.  After assessing the client's heart rate and blood pressure,  the nurse administers 0.4 milligrams  of nitroglycerin sublingually.  After five minutes, the client states,  my chest still hurts.  Which actions would the nurse take?  Select all that apply.  One, call a code blue.  Two, contact the client's family.  Three, assess the client's pain level.  Four, check the client's blood pressure.  Five, contact the primary healthcare provider.  And six, administer a second nitroglycerin,  0.4 milligrams sublingually.  All right, let's see how you did here.  So I'll start by telling you guys what the answer is.  The answer is gonna be option three,  assess the client's pain level.  Then option four, check the client's blood pressure.  And option six, administer a second nitroglycerin.  So it looks like about 90% went with option three,  89% went with option four.  And then option five,  check the patient's blood pressure.  And option six, administer a second nitroglycerin.  So it looks like 89% with option four  and then 82% with option six.  And then also option five did seem to be  an attractive option as well at 45%.  So let's talk about this a little more.  First, the usual guidelines for administering nitroglycerin  to a hospitalized client includes administering one tablet  every five minutes as needed for chest pain  for a total amount of three tablets.  If the client does not obtain relief  after taking a third dose of nitroglycerin,  that's when the healthcare provider needs to be notified.  Because they're still complaining of chest pain,  the nurse would administer a second tablet  and then would assess their pain level  and check their blood pressure  before administering each dose  because of the fact that it can cause hypotension.  There's no data in the question  that indicates the need to call a code blue.  And then in addition,  it's not necessary to contact the client's family  unless they've requested this.  And so when answering select all that apply questions,  you want to use the yes or no approach for each option,  focusing on the data in the question,  using the yes, no approach as you read each option.  And then for this particular question,  you can also use the steps of the nursing process  to determine that assessing the client's pain level  and checking their blood pressure are appropriate actions.  And then recalling the usual guidelines  for administering nitroglycerin tablets  will also assist you in determining an appropriate action  is to administer a second one in this scenario.  All right, so now we've got a question  that focuses on ferrous sulfate.  A client is diagnosed with iron deficiency anemia  and ferrous sulfate is prescribed.  The nurse would tell the client  that it's best to take the medication with which food?  One, milk, two, tomato juice,  three, seltzer water or four, pineapple juice.  All right, interesting.  So it looks like majority wanted to go with option one,  46% wanted to go with milk while only 18% tomato juice,  10% with seltzer water and then 25% with pineapple juice.  That's interesting.  So the answer here is actually going to be option two.  So ferrous sulfate, it's an iron preparation  and the client is instructed to take this medication  with orange juice or with another type of vitamin C  containing product or a product high in ascorbic acid  such as tomato juice,  because this will help to increase  the absorption of the iron.  You also want to know the strategic word best.  Among the options presented,  the tomato juice is the highest in vitamin C  and ascorbic acid.  There's approximately 25% vitamin C  in a glass of pineapple juice,  whereas there's about 75% in a glass of tomato juice.  And actually milk inhibits the absorption of iron  and seltzer water doesn't contain any vitamin C.  All right, so then next we have a question on phenytoin  and an adverse effect of this medication.  A client diagnosed with a seizure disorder  is receiving phenytoin 100 milligrams three times daily.  Which finding indicates that the client  is experiencing an adverse effect of the medication?  One, fatigue, two, dizziness, three, drowsiness  or four, bleeding gums?  All right, so it looks like 69%  shows the correct answer here,  which is option number four.  So phenytoin, also known as Dilantin,  is an anti-seizure medication.  If you didn't know this,  you can focus on the data in the question  and know that a diagnosis of seizure disorder  is provided there for you.  And so if there's a diagnosis noted  in any pharmacology question,  this can help you to determine  if you didn't know or what it's being used for.  A very important adverse effect specific to phenytoin  that you're likely to be asked about  is that it causes gingival hyperplasia.  Gingival hyperplasia causes bleeding,  tenderness or swelling of the gums.  And so be sure to remember this about this medication.  Fatigue and drowsiness are kind of comparable  or alike to the symptoms of a seizure disorder.  And so you can eliminate these as adverse effects.  Dizziness may occur,  but in this case is not an adverse effect.  So be sure to know what the question  is specifically asking about.  And in this question,  you can see it's asking about an adverse effect.  All right, so next, Linda's going to go over a question  about amoxicillin.  Thank you, Angela.  Okay, on this slide, we have another question  about an adverse effect  and the medication is amoxicillin.  So a client diagnosed  with a genital urinary tract infection  is receiving amoxicillin 500 milligrams every eight hours.  Which sign or symptom would indicate to the nurse  that the client is experiencing an adverse effect  related to the medication?  One, nausea.  Two, headache.  Three, nausea.  One, nausea.  Two, headache.  Three, hypertension.  And four, watery diarrhea.  Okay, well, I think you did great with this question.  61% of you selected option four  and option four is the correct answer.  Now, what you want to remember is that amoxicillin  is an antimicrobial or an antibiotic  and adverse effects of many of the antibiotics  include super infection,  such as potentially fatal antibiotic-associated colitis.  And that results because of the altered bacterial balance  that occurs in the intestines when you take antibiotics.  And some signs and symptoms would be abdominal cramps,  severe watery diarrhea, and fever.  The side effects of this medication  include gastrointestinal disturbances,  such as a mild diarrhea, perhaps,  and nausea and vomiting, headache,  and sometimes oral or vaginal candidiasis.  Hypertension is not associated with the use of this med.  And then now note that the question, again,  is asking for that adverse effect.  And if you can remember that these antibiotics  have a tendency to produce  these severe gastrointestinal disturbances,  and you note the word watery in option four,  that's gonna really help you  answer this question correctly.  Okay, on the next slide, we have a question on levodopa.  And we're gonna look at our strategic word here.  The nurse is caring for a client  diagnosed with Parkinson's disease  who has recently been prescribed levodopa.  What is the most important assessment?  That's probably assessment.  What is most important to monitor, sorry,  before ambulating the client?  One, the client's history of falls.  Two, the client's orthostatic vital signs.  Three, assistive devices used by the client.  And four, the degree of intention tremors  exhibited by the client.  Okay, looks like you did great with this question.  The answer is option two,  and 58% of you did select the correct answer.  So your clients with Parkinson's disease  are at risk for postural,  also known as orthostatic hypotension  from the disease process.  And this problem is exasperated  with the introduction of levodopa  because levodopa can also cause postural hypotension.  So this places the client at risk for falls.  And although history of falls  and knowledge of the client's use  of assistive devices is helpful,  it's not the most important piece of data  on the basis of the information in the question.  And then it's important to remember  that clients with Parkinson's disease  generally have resting tremors, not intentional tremors.  So know those strategic words most important.  Remember that postural hypotension  from the options provided  presents the greatest safety risk to the client.  And also use your ABCs, airway, breathing, and circulation.  And this would also help you answer this question correctly.  Okay, on the next slide,  we have a question on furosemide  and strategic words here again.  A client experiencing difficulty breathing  and increased lung congestion  was prescribed furosemide 40 milligrams  to be given intravenously.  After one hour, which finding indicates  that the therapy has been effective.  One, the lungs are clear upon auscultation.  Two, the urine output has increased by 400 ml.  Three, the serum potassium has decreased from 4.7 to 4.1.  And four, the blood pressure has decreased  from 118 over 64 to 106 over 62.  Okay, you did really great with this one.  Also 66% of you selected option one,  which is the correct option.  So let's take a look at this.  So furosemide is the generic name for Lasix  and it's a potassium wasting diuretic.  And in this situation, furosemide was given  because the client was experiencing difficulty breathing  and had increased pulmonary congestion.  So although all notations in the options may occur,  option one is the reason  that the furosemide was administered.  So remember that when a diuretic is administered,  urine output will increase.  And also remember that the blood pressure will drop  as a result of fluid loss.  And with furosemide, it's very important to remember  that the potassium level can drop  because this medication is a potassium wasting one.  However, even though the potassium level dropped  in this option three,  it is still within the normal range of 3.5 to 5.0.  So these are all important points about the medication,  but again, focus on the data in the question,  note the word effective  and note the relationship between the words  pulmonary congestion in the question and option one.  Okay, on this next slide,  we have a question on metformin  and a strategic word in this question.  The nurse is assessing a client taking metformin.  Which finding requires immediate notification  of the primary healthcare provider?  One, hyperventilation.  Two, abdominal bloating.  Three, complaints of diarrhea.  And four, complaints of unpleasant metallic taste.  Hey, you did great on this one also.  52% of you selected option one,  which is the correct answer.  Let's take a look at this.  Now, metformin, you may also know this as glucophage  and it's classified as an oral hypoglycemic  and it acts by improving glycemic control in diabetics.  But a serious and potentially fatal complication  of the medication is lactic acidosis.  And this is manifested by hyperventilation,  malaise, drowsiness,  and the condition could advance to cardiovascular collapse,  causing some shock if it's not recognized  and treated immediately.  So abdominal bloating, diarrhea,  and an unpleasant metallic taste are side effects  associated with this medication.  But again, look at the question,  note the word immediate notification  of the primary healthcare provider.  So this should be a clue to you  that you're looking for an option  that identifies a serious concern or an adverse effect.  And with this question,  you could also use the ABCs,  airway, breathing, and circulation to answer the question.  Okay, on the next slide,  we have a question on the corticosteroids.  I just wanted to clarify one thing.  There was some confusion that I had in the poll,  mistyped abdominal bloating as abdominal bleeding,  but just wanted to clarify  that should have been abdominal bloating in the poll, so.  Thank you, Jenna.  Yes, abdominal bloating is associated with this medication.  Abdominal bleeding is not at all.  Okay, so it is abdominal bloating  that these patients could have  when they're taking this medication.  But that's a side effect  and wouldn't require immediate notification  of the healthcare provider, primary healthcare provider.  Okay, so on this slide,  we have a question on the corticosteroid prednisone.  The nurse provides instructions to a client  who has a prescription for long-term prednisone.  Which instruction would the nurse include?  One, take the medication at night  in order to enhance sleep.  Two, sometimes a sore throat may be felt,  but this is not a concern.  Three, the medication should not be stopped abruptly  because withdrawal symptoms can occur.  And four, sudden weight gain is normal with this medication  and does not need to be reported  unless it becomes extremely bothersome.  Okay, let's see here.  Let me just scroll down.  You guys did great.  82% of you selected option three  and option three is the correct answer.  Okay, great.  So note what the question says,  long-term prednisone and client instructions.  Now we know that prednisone is a corticosteroid.  It inhibits the body's inflammatory response.  Now a little tip, most of the corticosteroid names  end in the letters S-O-N-E.  So this is one way to recognize your corticosteroids.  Now withdrawal symptoms can occur  if the medication is abruptly discontinued.  So the client needs to be weaned off this medication,  especially if the medication  has been taken on a long-term basis.  So the nurse should teach the client  to take this medication early in the morning  in order to mimic the body's natural burst  of a corticosteroid.  So morning is the best time for taking this med,  not at night.  And additionally, the medication can cause insomnia.  Taking it at night is really not a great thing.  A sore throat and sudden weight gain  are adverse effects associated  with the use of this medication,  and they should be reported to the physician immediately.  And just a few other points to remember about prednisone  is that it can cause elevated glucose levels,  and it can also cause hypokalemia.  So the client with diabetes who's taking prednisone  will need to be closely monitored,  and adjustments in insulin may need to be made  while they're taking the medication.  And the client at risk for hypokalemia,  such as the client taking a potassium-wasting diuretic,  will need to have their potassium levels  monitored very closely.  Okay, so on the next slide,  we have a question on the anticoagulant  and we have a negative event query here.  So a client will be taking warfarin sodium at home  on a daily basis.  The nurse provides instructions about the medication  and determines that further teaching is needed  if the client makes which statement?  One, I need to have blood levels tested frequently.  Two, I need to increase foods in my diet  that are high in vitamin K.  Three, this medication thins my blood  and then it clots more slowly.  And four, if I notice any bleeding or bruising,  I need to call my doctor.  Okay, great work again.  85% of you selected option two,  and option two is the correct answer.  So warfarin is also known as Coumadin  and it's an oral anticoagulant  that is used mainly to prevent any thrombotic events  such as thrombophlebitis or pulmonary emboli  or any embolism formation caused by atrial fibrillation  or even some other disorders.  And oral anticoagulants prolong the clotting time  and they're monitored by the prothrombin time  and the international normalized ratio or the INR.  Client education should include signs and symptoms  of adverse effects primarily bleeding  and dietary limitations  such as limiting foods high in vitamin K  because foods high in vitamin K increase the clotting time.  Some of these foods are leafy green vegetables,  cheese, egg yolks, things like that.  So with this question, you need to be sure  that you know the strategic words,  further teaching is needed,  and these words indicate your negative event query  and ask you again to select the option  that's an incorrect client statement.  So recalling that warfarin is an anticoagulant  will help you answer  and assist in eliminating options one, three, and four.  And also remembering the role that vitamin K plays  in the clotting mechanisms will help direct you  to the option that indicates the need for further teaching.  Okay, on this next slide,  we have a question on morphine sulfate  and we have a strategic word here in the question.  So a client is receiving morphine sulfate  via a patient controlled analgesia pump.  What would the nurse check initially  when assessing the client?  One, a PCA pump, two, temperature,  three, urine output, and four, respiratory status.  Okay, awesome work.  96% of you selected the correct answer,  which is option four, respiratory status.  So what we really wanna remember about morphine  is that it depresses respirations.  That's the key point to remember.  Test questions about morphine  that you're going to see on your nursing exams  or on the NCLEX are gonna focus around that point.  So the nurse monitors the respiratory status  of the client receiving morphine very closely.  And you wanna check the client  before you check a piece of machinery.  So that's another important point to keep in mind.  So note the word initially,  use the ABCs, airway, breathing, and circulation  to help guide you to the correct option.  And although options one, two, and three  may be a part of the assessment,  option four identifies the priority,  so thus is the initial nursing action.  Okay, on this next slide,  we're gonna turn this over to Angela.  And go ahead, you're all set.  Thank you, Linda.  You're welcome.  All right, next question.  A client has a prescription for ketoconazole.  Which instruction would the nurse teach the client  to follow while taking this medication?  One, avoid exposure to sunlight.  Two, limit alcohol to two ounces per day.  Three, take the medication with an antacid.  Or four, take the medication on an empty stomach.  All right, you guys did fantastic with this one.  69% of you chose option one,  which is in fact the correct answer.  So for this question, we want you to focus on the subject,  which is client instructions for this medication.  Ketoconazole is an antimicrobial,  and it's further classified as an antifungal medication.  The client should avoid exposure to sunlight  because the medication increases photosensitivity.  This is an important point to remember about antimicrobials.  And remember, you guys did good, no alcohol on the exam.  In addition, the client needs to be instructed  to avoid the concurrent use of alcohol  because this medication is also hepatotoxic.  Antacids should be avoided for two hours  after the medication is taken  because gastric acid is needed to activate the medication.  This medication should be taken with food  to prevent GI disturbances.  And so just remember to use those general guidelines  related to medication administration  to eliminate taking the medication with some alcohol  and taking the medication with an antacid.  And then from the remaining options,  it's necessary to know that the medication  causes a photosensitivity reaction  and should be taken with food because of the GI disturbances.  Nice work on that.  Next, we have a question on a monoamine oxidase inhibitor.  It's a select-all-that-apply question.  A client's been prescribed a monoamine oxidase inhibitor,  or MAOI.  The nurse would tell the client  that which foods are acceptable to consume?  Select-all-that-apply.  1. Figs, 2. Lemon, 3. Bananas, 4. Oranges, 5. Avocado,  and 6. Summer squash.  All right, so it looks like we've got...  We're kind of across the board here,  so let's just go over the correct answers.  The answer is going to be option 2, lemon,  option 4, oranges, and then option 6, summer squash.  So if you focus on the subject of the question,  which is client instructions about foods to eat with an MAOI,  the client taking an MAOI medication  should be advised to avoid eating foods  that are high in tyramine.  The tyramine in foods reacts with the medication,  which can cause a hypertensive crisis,  and it could prove to be fatal.  Fruits and vegetables are naturally low in tyramine,  with the exception of figs,  and then bananas in large amounts,  and then avocados if they're especially overripe,  soybeans, and sauerkraut.  So you can see 2, 4, and 6  are going to be your correct answers here.  Okay, so next we've got a question on the medication  Isonacid.  A client has been prescribed Isonacid  in the treatment of tuberculosis or TB.  What would the nurse plan to monitor during therapy  with this medication?  1, vision test results, 2, hepatic enzymes,  3, hemoglobin and hematocrit,  or 4, the blood urea nitrogen, or BUN, and creatinine.  All right, so 44% of you chose option 2,  which is the correct answer here.  So this medication, Isonacid,  there's the risk for hepatotoxicity with this medication,  and so for this reason,  the client's hepatic enzymes are measured before  and periodically during therapy.  Vision testing is done during treatment  with the medication ethambutol,  which is another anti-tuberculosis medication.  Hemoglobin and hematocrit values  are unrelated to this question.  And then BUN and creatinine are measured during therapy  with a medication called streptomycin,  which also is a nephrotoxic medication.  And so important to remember is that Isonacid  is contraindicated in clients with hypersensitivity  or with acute liver disease.  Okay, next question is a select-all-that-apply question  on levothyroxine.  Which medication instructions would the nurse provide  to a client who's been prescribed levothyroxine?  Select-all-that-apply.  One, monitor your own pulse rate.  Two, take the medication in the morning.  Three, notify the primary healthcare provider  if chest pain occurs.  Four, it may take one to three weeks  for a full therapeutic effect to occur.  And five, expect the pulse rate  to be greater than 100 beats per minute.  All right, very good, you guys.  Looks like there were a number of you  ranging from 61 to 84% that chose  all of the correct options,  which is option one, the pulse rate.  Two, taking the medication in the morning.  Three, notify the primary healthcare provider  if chest pain occurs.  And four, that it may take one to three weeks  for a full therapeutic effect to occur.  So levothyroxine is a thyroid hormone,  and the client is instructed  to monitor their own pulse rate.  They're also instructed to take the medication  in the morning before breakfast to prevent insomnia  and to take the medication at the same time each day  to maintain those hormone levels.  They're also told that the full therapeutic effect  may take one to three weeks  and that they need to have follow-up thyroid blood studies  to monitor therapy.  And thyroid replacement is often lifelong.  Additional instructions would be including the primary  or contacting the primary healthcare provider  if the heart rate is greater than 100 beats per minute,  and then notifying them if chest pain occurs  or if weight loss, nervousness,  tremors, or insomnia develops.  And so you think about the effects of the medication  as you read each of these options.  Noting the words greater than 100 beats per minute  in option five will assist you in eliminating that option,  and you wouldn't expect that to occur.  Okay, and so with that,  we'd like to open it up for any questions.  And we also want to thank you  for spending time with us this evening,  and we wish you all the very best.  And we wanna just remind you to stay positive  and believe in yourself.  You can do this, and we hope that you stay safe  and have a great night.  But before we let you go, we'll take a few questions.  Thank you, Angela, and thank you, Linda.  That was so great.  And there's been so many questions coming in,  so we can get to a few right now.  The first question I wanted to address was,  do you have any tips on how to recognize  the class a medication belongs to?  Angela, do you wanna answer that?  Do you want me to?  I can take that first question,  and then you can add as you feel that you need to.  So tips to recognize how,  or how to recognize the class a medication belongs to.  The first thing that you wanna do  is read the question,  know if there's a diagnosis in the question.  We practiced that a little bit this evening.  And then that will help to give you an indication  of what class the medication is in.  So for example, if the question read,  a client with heart failure is taking furosemide,  then you wanna think about  the pathophysiology of heart failure.  And probably that furosemide is gonna be something  that treats that fluid volume overload,  and then you can get it into  the classification of a diuretic.  Or another example might be,  a client with breast cancer is receiving cyclophosphamide.  You might then connect, make that connection  and think about cyclophosphamide  as possibly being a chemotherapeutic drug.  And then Linda, do you have any other tips  that you wanna add?  No, you're doing a great job.  Okay, just a couple other things  that I'm thinking about too.  The prefix and the suffix in medication names,  you can try to learn those commonalities  in those medication names.  And that can help you to determine  if a medication belongs to a particular class.  And that can then help you in answering the question.  So if you note that the medication name in a test question,  you see the name, but you're not familiar with the name.  If you can at least associate the medication with a class,  you'll then hopefully be able to determine the action,  side effects and nursing interventions.  So take a look at the letters in the name  and look for those that may identify  a particular med classification.  So for example, ACE inhibitors,  most of those end with the letters P-R-I-L  like lisinopril or enalapril.  Another one that I can think of is antiviral medications.  A lot of those contain the letters V-I-R  such as ritonavir.  And then beta blockers, they end with L-O-L  such as atenolol or metoprolol.  Glucocorticoids and corticosteroids,  Linda mentioned that,  ends with the letters S-O-N-E such as prednisone.  And then with your sulfonamides,  most of those medications include S-U-L-F in their names  such as sulfamethoxazole.  Most thyroid medications contain T-H-Y in the name  like levothyroxine.  And then your xanthine bronchodilators,  most of those end with the letters L-I-N-E  such as theophylline.  So if you can study those and recognize those,  that will really help you to get medications  into the classification  and then hopefully be able to answer  whatever the question may be asking about.  If you are able to remember the therapeutic effect,  common side effects, adverse and toxic effects  associated with medication classifications  rather than individual medications,  that will really help you to scale down  the amount of information that you need to remember.  Thank you, that was awesome information.  Going off of the number of questions  that you had just mentioned,  taking practice questions there,  there was a couple different questions  coming in from students  about the 3,500 to 4,000 practice questions  that you recommend taking before the NCLEX  and whether that is all practice questions,  just pharmacology and how long you recommend it.  Is that your senior year or through all of nursing school?  I know that's multi-layered, but yeah.  Okay, well, the 3,500,  Angela, you jump in after if you have something to add.  The 3,500 to 4,000 practice questions  is not just pharmacology questions.  It is questions in foundations, maternity, PD, adult health,  you really wanna be strong there,  your mental health questions and your pharmacology questions.  Now, many students have the comp review books  when they begin their nursing program, which is ideal  because as you're getting ready for a nursing exam,  let's say it's maternity,  you can practice all of those questions  in that maternity section on Evolve and in the book  to get ready for your nursing exam.  And you're getting ready for NCLEX at the very same time.  Again, we want to emphasize how critically important it is  to read the rationales and the test-taking strategies.  So it's 3,500 to 4,000, more if you can,  but while you're in nursing school  and throughout your senior year.  And then when you get to your senior year,  if you've sort of exhausted that comp review book  with practice questions,  that's when we really recommend the Q&A book  because as we mentioned previously,  they're higher level questions,  they really test your clinical judgment  and the ability to make sound judgments  in the clinical situation.  Anything to add, Angela?  I think the only thing I would reiterate, Linda,  that you already said is that you really shouldn't count  the questions that you're practicing towards that total  unless you really are paying attention  and reading those rationales and reading those strategies  because you would be doing yourself a disservice  to say to yourself, okay,  I know this book has 6,000 questions,  I've gone through the whole book, so I've done 6,000.  But if you weren't really like doing it at your best  and really paying attention,  then I would caution you on counting those  and would tell you to or advise you  to kind of take a step back  and maybe come up with a plan  that would be fair to yourself and true to yourself  that would really truly cover that 3,500 to 4,000.  That's a really great point that you made  and it brings to mind that what is really important  is at the end of your courses,  many of you take standardized examinations  and then you may take an exit exam  or an exam at the end of your program.  With these standardized tests,  you really need to take them seriously  and you can use the results on these tests  to help guide you with where your strengths  and your weaknesses are  because then that is an area where you really wanna focus  when you're doing your practice questions.  Thank you.  Another, a bunch of questions coming in  about how there's just so many medications  to remember in pharmacology  and all the different drug effects  and contradictions and indications.  And when you sit down to study for pharmacology,  how do you recommend approaching  all that there is to know and to learn?  Okay, yeah, and I think Angela might have touched  on this a little bit,  but one of the things is approach your study,  studying and review by medication calculations.  And the reason we recommend this  is because medications that belong  to a particular classification  are going to have similar med actions  and usually have commonalities  in their side effects and nursing interventions  related to administration.  And it's nearly impossible to learn every feature  about every individual med.  So we don't want you to be trying to do that.  Learn the meds by the classification system method  that groups meds with similar properties together.  And that makes the amount of information  that needs to be learned condensed and very manageable.  So for example, group all your beta blockers together.  Remember that most of their names will end in LOL.  Then group their intended effects,  which are all gonna be similar.  Group the side effects and adverse effects  and the nursing interventions, including patient teaching.  And that is all gonna be similar.  So the classification method is really, really important.  Anything to add, Angela?  I think maybe the only thing that I would add to that  is that a lot of the pharmacology textbooks out there  will present information using the classification method  and they will likely identify  a number of prototype medications  or the most common medications that in a way  represent that particular classification.  And so you could really kind of get to know  maybe the top three or four medication names  within a certain classification.  And then from there, as you had just described, Linda,  learning all of those other things  associated with the entire class.  So it really is kind of a method  that you'd have to use to learn  and then to get to know those things.  And then I would also advise you  to make the most of your clinical experiences  when it comes to learning your medications.  That's really an opportune time  to apply this information that you're learning  to a real patient or client care scenario.  And that really, really helps to solidify  and helps you to remember what a medication is used for,  if you can tie it back to some of those clinical experiences.  And then that really helps you to then understand  kind of what a treatment regimen might look like  for a certain condition with medications  coming from multiple different classifications.  And then also interactive effects  is another thing that that would help with.  So clinical experiences and then case studies  also help with kind of tying all of those pieces together.  But if you start with learning  the classifications initially,  and then as you're getting closer to taking your NCLEX,  kind of putting those finishing touches  on the pharmacology content  by reflecting back on those clinical experiences,  and then maybe using some case study resources  is really helpful.  Wow, that answered on most of the questions  and was really awesome.  I think that there was one other question  I wanted to touch on  and I thought it would be a good note to end the night.  So what do you recommend for students with test anxiety  as semesters are gonna be wrapping up  in a few months here and yeah.  Well, there's lots of little tips for test anxiety.  And Angela, I'll turn this over to you  after I just make a few starting points here.  First of all, you need to be prepared for your exam.  If you're going to be prepared for your exam,  that's going to help some.  You need to think about some techniques  that will work for you to keep your mind focused.  So deep breathing always helps.  That helps an awful lot of people  with helping them to focus and direct their attention  to what they're doing and relieve that test anxiety.  So you breathe in through your nose,  hold that for a count of four  and then breathe out through your mouth.  Now, remember when we have post-operative patients  in the clinical area and their pulse ox drops,  what do we tell them to do?  We tell them to deep breathe.  That's the first thing we ask them to do is to deep breathe  and we watch their pulse oxes most of the time  go right back up again.  Well, that's why deep breathing is important  because it's going to help to bring a lot of oxygen  into your body and it's going to bring it to your brain  where you want it the most when you're taking an exam.  The other thing that I have seen happen with students  is when they're coming to class and they're taking an exam,  they'll all congregate outside the classroom  till the classroom is empty  from the previous group of students that were in there  and they all start talking about what they studied,  what's going to be on the exam, what this, what that.  And what I say to you is to move away from those groups  and not listen to that  because that's only going to increase your anxiety.  If you start hearing other people talking about  what they think is going to be on the exam  and perhaps maybe you didn't study that enough  or you feel like you didn't study that enough,  that's only going to increase your anxiety even more.  Healthy wise, stay away from coffee, eat a good breakfast.  Those complex carbs are really good to feed your body  and feed your brain.  And what else to add, Angela?  Yeah, thank you.  Those are all really great tips  and excellent starting points.  And if you are not,  if you're finding that you're still struggling with this  after doing all of those things  and then doing the pampering and the self care  and finding the balance between school, work, personal life  and you're still struggling with this,  universities, colleges, they've got resources  that you can be referred to or seek out on your own.  And I would recommend that you do that.  And it may be pursuant to, for example,  the American Disabilities Act  where there's a resource center that works with students  who may have a documented or undocumented disability.  And there may be some accommodations  that could be put in place that will help  specifically with testing, taking anxiety.  And it may be things like maybe you need an extra time,  like one and a half times on an exam.  And that would be substantial enough  to help then reduce the anxiety.  So that's just one of many examples  that those resources typically can offer to students.  And I always say the sooner you can get something like that  in place, if you need it, the better.  And if you don't need to use the accommodation,  then that's okay.  At least you have it in place  in the event that you do need it.  These accommodations also are applicable  for the NCLEX exam as well.  You just have to follow the processes  to have that set in place for the exam  through your respective state board of nursing  that you're applying for licensure with.  And then certainly working with your healthcare provider  and perhaps working with counseling.  Those things may be tremendously helpful.  And even though it may take time  to seek out those resources,  in the end, they end up being a time gain for you  in that you won't be chasing your tail,  trying to raise a grade on an exam  so that you're successful  and it doesn't inhibit your progression in your program.  And so that you don't have to come back  and repeat a course or something like that.  So just consider those things  and consider the resources that you have.  Talk to your faculty advisors.  They're often an excellent resource  to be able to refer you appropriately.  And then ultimately in the end,  I would probably end on this note.  If you think that there's not an option available for you  to help you to be more successful,  that's probably not the case.  And you need to just ask those questions  and kind of voice what you're experiencing.  And more often than not,  somebody somewhere will be able to help you  to navigate those things.  Right.  And if sometimes it's just a self-assessment  or someone to help you assess  what it is that is causing your anxiety.  And if you can pinpoint that to some degree,  then that's where your focus can be to help relieve it.  Absolutely.  Thank you so much.  It's been such a great evening  and we hope that you all enjoyed the review  as much as we did.  And thank you Linda and Angela  for all of your time tonight with us.  I know it's been appreciated.  And yeah, everyone have a great rest of your evening.  Yes.  Have a great night.  Thank you very much.  Thank you everybody.  Have a great night.   