 In this brief podcast, what we're going to do is examine  quantitative and qualitative research methodologies to look  briefly at the similarities and differences  of these two forms.  Some of the main points that we would want to recall relate  to what these actually are.  Quantitative research involves analysis of numerical data.  Things are quantified.  Numerical values are placed on them.  And those numerical values are then analyzed using  statistical processes.  Qualitative research involves analysis of data such as  words, pictures, or objects.  We may be talking about conducting interviews.  We may be talking about watching recordings on  television, all sorts of different things that we might  do with qualitative research.  Now, a great debate rages, and has raged for many years,  over which is the best method.  The quantitative researchers champion their cause, and the  qualitative researchers champion theirs.  The fact is that neither method does everything.  Both have their uses.  Both have their value.  And you need to choose a methodology which fits your  research problem and with which you are comfortable.  So let's move into this.  Now, how are they alike?  Well, the statement might be made that raw data are  ultimately qualitative.  Now, I've told you that I'm basically  quantitative in my approach.  But I agree with this statement.  Even to give a number to something, we must first  evaluate what we're giving that number to.  So that statement is pretty powerful, that raw data are  ultimately qualitative.  Both do involve the researcher.  I mean, the researcher is leading the project.  Both have data collection steps.  Both follow the six-step research model.  And both similarly report the research problem.  Now, what I'm telling you about this is that  quantitative and qualitative are both legitimate  methodologies by which a researcher may analyze a  research problem.  Now, they differ in some things.  They have different approaches to gathering and analyzing  information.  They examine different types of data.  And they have different aims.  When we talk about the approaches and we talk about  the types of data, I mean, quantitative  looks at numbers.  Qualitative may look at words or pictures or interviews.  They have different approaches.  So in quantitative, data are numerical.  And they're handled in that manner.  In qualitative, the researcher may conduct field interviews.  They have different aims.  In qualitative, the aim is to come up with a holistic,  complete description.  In quantitative, the aim may be simply to look at one  specific aspect and to determine something about that  one specific aspect which has been predetermined.  Now, the role of the researcher differs  in these two fields.  In quantitative, the researcher is always a little  pointy-eared, outside-objective observer.  In qualitative, the researcher can be subjective.  The researcher may be involved in different levels in the  actual experiencing of the phenomena being studied.  Now, there are different levels of understanding what is  being sought.  And that's a very interesting difference.  When one does quantitative research, generally the thing  that is being sought or the subject that is to be studied  or analyzed is pretty fairly well understood.  And the analysis is based upon that prior understanding.  In qualitative research, the phenomena may not be known  hardly at all.  And qualitative may be used to discover aspects of the  phenomena to be studied.  And these methodologies differ in the manner in which the  design emerges.  In quantitative research, the design is laid  out on the front end.  In qualitative, the design emerges as  the research goes on.  Now, those are very interesting differences.  Now, just to summarize, in quantitative research, you  generally end up with data, reduced numbers, which are  analyzed using statistics.  In qualitative research, you will describe and analyze a  phenomenon using words.  Now, I hope, based upon this short little summary, that you  have begun to got a feeling concerning the differences in  quantitative and qualitative research.  Your job now is to go through the reading material in the  textbook, which has been assigned, until you are very  well conversant in describing quantitative and qualitative  research and in discussing the similarities and differences  to these two approaches.  Thank you. 