 Hi there. Studying for exams is one thing, gearing up for the test is another.  It really helps to keep your cool to ace your test. So here is a short  5-minute guided meditation to help you remember better and perform better.  First, find a place calm and comfortable. Sit down very comfortably,  close your eyes and relax. Release all the tension in your body and relax.  And relax. Breathe in and breathe out. Keep your eyes closed.  And as you relax, try to recollect the chapters that you have studied.  As you already know, most papers will get you through the test  if you study 3 out of 5-8 chapters and studying more than 5 chapters will land you 100%.  Either case, you know what you are aiming for. So take a breath  and recollect the concepts of all the chapters that you have studied one after the other.  Every concept that you can recollect, one after the other.  Breathe in and breathe out.  And relax.  This way, you won't forget something that you have worked so hard to learn  just because of an exam tension. Breathe in and breathe out.  Your exam coming up may be an easy one, something that you have thoroughly enjoyed all the way.  Well, in that case, you will enjoy the exam every bit of it as you ease past  all the questions with the right solutions.  Imagine yourself feeling really good about your exam.  Or, if it is your tough exam tomorrow, something that you are nervous about,  think about the concepts that you are strong at.  Most subjects, as you know, have patterns that you are not used to.  Have patterns that you can rely on. And you know your model questions.  So, trust in yourself and the concepts that you have already mastered.  And look at yourself in the exam hall with the question paper,  being able to answer all the questions that you have prepared for.  Think of the number of questions that you have on mind  and trust yourself that you can answer all of them correctly.  Let's take a deep breath in and then breathe out.  And before you start your exam, as you wait for the question paper,  give yourself a little talk, just like a coach would talk before the game.  So, tell yourself what you are good at, what you are ready for.  And then, with all faith in yourself, give it your best.  Sometimes, a little crazy faith doesn't hurt.  Now, good luck with that test of yours. Go ahead and ace it. 