 Hello and welcome. I'm Marshall Brain and today the big science question is how does  electricity create a magnet? We've all seen one of these. This is a normal magnet. They  come in all shapes and sizes. This is called a horseshoe magnet. If we take this horseshoe  magnet and we put it near a little pile of staples, it'll pick them up. Now what if instead  I take a screw like this and I hold it near this little pile of staples? What do you think  is going to happen? Yeah, you're right. Nothing happens. Now let's say I take this screw and  I take some normal wire and I wrap the wire around the screw. When I get done, it looks  like this. It's just a normal screw wrapped in wire. If I hold that near the staples,  nothing happens. Wrapping wire around a screw does not change it and turn it into a magnet.  But now what if I do this? I take a normal battery and I connect it to the two ends of  the wire that are wrapped around the screw like this. Look, a magnet. Let's watch that  again in slow motion. Just by adding a little electricity, we turn this screw and wire into  a magnet. Why does that happen? I mean we have a normal screw, a normal piece of wire.  We run electricity through it and suddenly it becomes a magnet. We can understand what's  going on there if we look at a compass and a wire. Here we've got your basic compass  with the needle pointing north and south. Now let's say we put a wire near that compass  and let's say that we run some electricity through the wire like this. Watch what happens  to the needle. As soon as we let electricity flow through the wire, the needle really responds  to that electricity. So here's what's happening. If you take any piece of wire and you run  electricity through it, the electricity will automatically create a magnetic field around  that wire. It's kind of like a tube of magnetism that surrounds the wire. And that tube of  magnetism actually affected our compass. We could see that that magnetism was changing  the way the compass needle pointed. And that tells us that there's a magnetic field that's  been created around this wire. Now let's say you take a wire and you wrap it around a screw  or any other piece of metal. All those tubes of magnetism overlap and they line up along  the length of the screw. That creates a very strong magnetic field right here in the center.  We've created a magnet out of electricity. It turns out that you can do all kinds of  experiments with electromagnets at home. All you need is a piece of metal like a screw  and some wire. It can be thin wire like this or thicker wire with plastic insulation. It  doesn't really matter. Now here's one experiment to try. Try powering your magnet with one  battery. Then take two batteries and put them together and try powering it with that. Which  is more powerful? One battery or two? And how much more powerful is it? Count the number  of staples and record it. You'll be able to see how much stronger one or two or three  batteries is. You can measure how strong your electromagnet is by counting the number of  staples it picks up. The more staples, the stronger the magnet. Here's another experiment.  Try wrapping 100 turns of wire around your piece of metal. Then try wrapping 200 turns  around it and see which of those two magnets is more powerful. You can try 300 or 400 turns  as well. Or what about this? Try a screw in the center of your magnet. Then try a piece  of aluminum. Maybe a wadded up piece of aluminum foil. Then try something that's not metal  at all. Maybe a piece of wood like a pencil or a piece of plastic. The point is there's  all kinds of experiments and that is what science is all about. Trying experiments and  learning new things. Have fun performing your own science experiments. 