 If you're brand new to cybersecurity, you need to know how to make a risk-based decision.  Hey, Brandon Spencer here, and what I'd like to share with you today is a short video from one of our free training courses,  Start Security From Scratch.  It's important that you watch this entire video to get the full context of how we make risk decisions when it comes to cybersecurity.  You see, it's not all about tools and techniques.  This video is about understanding the true concept of risk management.  And risk management is a very important topic when it comes to cybersecurity.  That's what we do as cybersecurity professionals.  We manage security risks by doing all kinds of different things.  Performing a risk assessment is the first part of that equation.  And once you've done a risk assessment, now you need to make a decision.  You have all the data in front of you.  Now you need to decide what to do with the risk that you've discovered and then monitor that decision after you make it.  We don't just make a decision and say, yeah, do that.  We want to make sure we made the right decision.  Due care, deciding what to do, due diligence, maintaining that over time, monitoring it over time, making sure that that decision was properly made.  So what kind of risk decisions can we make?  These you're going to see.  You're definitely going to see these in the industry.  With risk, you can know a risk is there and just accept it.  Okay, it's there.  Good.  Whatever.  No matter what happens, you're always accepting the risk at some level.  And I'll explain why on the next chart.  You're always accepting the risk.  At some point, you have to get to the point where you're like, okay, I can accept that.  I can deal with that.  How much of that web server will we lose?  Well, it costs $20,000.  And if this thing gets attacked, it'll probably cost you $5,000 to fix it.  Okay, I can live with that.  You just accepted that.  See what I'm saying?  The other thing you can do is avoid it.  Meaning, hey, we want to add a new web server out to the open Internet.  No protections, no nothing.  That's going to be really, really hard for the company if this server gets attacked.  But I think we're okay.  Yeah, we're going to go ahead and avoid that problem.  And we're not going to do that.  That's avoiding the risk.  You don't introduce new changes that will increase the level of risk you've already accepted.  I know the risk right now.  Okay, imagine it this way.  You're standing on a cliff and you're looking down.  And down below you is like 500 feet.  You know the risk.  If you put a parachute on your back and you jump, you're accepting the risk.  If you say, yeah, I'm good and walk back to your vehicle or leave,  you're avoiding the risk of falling.  See what I'm saying?  That's what that's about.  Then you have mitigation.  This is what we do most of the time in security.  We reduce the risk to an acceptable level.  Again, you're accepting the risk no matter what.  We just reduce it to the point where you can say, okay, I'm not going to lose $20,000.  I'm only going to lose $5,000.  Perfect.  I'll take it.  I'll take it.  You just mitigate it and accept it.  Okay, well, mitigation is about applying countermeasures and controls  to make sure that you can get down to that level.  In other words, if you put a web server out in the open internet  and put no protection on it,  what do you think the risk of that thing getting compromised is?  100% in about 30 seconds.  It's going to be bad.  But what if we decide let's put it behind a firewall, protect it,  let's put endpoint security on it,  anti-virus, anti-malware, host-based intrusion prevention and detection systems on it,  and we protect it.  Okay, well, then we're not going to lose everything because it's pretty well protected.  Maybe somebody can take it down, but we'll be able to recover.  And if we recover, how much will that cost?  A couple hundred bucks.  Yeah.  So the mitigation was behind the firewall, adding anti-malware, anti-virus.  Those are security controls.  Adding security controls to mitigate risk and then accept it.  Then the last one is transferring risk.  That's also called risk assignment.  Insurance.  Think of insurance.  Same thing when you drive your vehicle.  In the United States, we are required to have insurance for our vehicles.  That's so the insurance can assume the risk of me running a red light  while I'm checking my cell phone.  That's what risk assignment is all about.  You can assign this to service providers, managed MSPs,  managed service providers, internet service providers.  They accept some risk for you.  Cloud service providers accept some level of risk for you.  So you transfer that risk to them, and then you accept the risk you want to.  Okay, that's transferring.  Most of the time, it's mitigating and accepting.  Avoiding happens as well.  There's some other terms that you might see in the certifications,  but these are the main four.  Okay.  Now that you've made your decision, how do you monitor that risk?  Well, what you want to do is if you knew that a threat existed  and you knew the attack vector, now you want to monitor the weakness,  and you want to monitor the controls to see if it's actually working.  So in that case, maybe you're looking at your logs.  Maybe you're doing audits,  and you're making sure that you're looking at the function  that it could possibly impact,  and you're just making sure that your security controls  are protecting this vulnerability  and preventing this attack from these threat actors.  Does this make sense?  Again, business-enabled.  This is what we're focused on, keeping the business going.  If the business doesn't go, they have no need for us to do security.  So you want to monitor and make sure that the decisions you've made are effective.  How do you do that?  You use all of the data possible.  Logs, questions, asking system administrators,  maybe network administrators.  Hey, have you seen any issues on the network lately?  No, it's all good.  Matter of fact, after you put that firewall in,  man, all the weird traffic stopped.  Wow, imagine that.  That's pretty awesome.  You could also do something called a cost-benefit analysis  where you actually say it took me this much money  and this much effort to implement this control.  How much did that cost?  Oh, it only cost $10,000.  What does it net us in return?  Well, if this function went down, that would cost us like $500,000.  Okay, well, we probably want to spend a little bit more money, right?  You just did a cost-benefit analysis.  And then you also want to make sure that you're keeping people informed  of the decisions that are being made,  whether you have stakeholders like your presidents,  maybe you have a CIO, chief information officer,  that's responsible for making these decisions,  and you want to make sure that you get buy-in from them,  that these were the right decisions.  Maybe you have to get buy-in from them in order to implement this.  I don't know your company structure.  It really all depends on your information system,  the business, organizational impacts, and a multitude of other things.  But it's important to thoroughly consider all of these things  and consider the things I showed you here in this video  when you make a security risk decision.  Now, if you like this video, please give it a thumbs up.  And if you're new here, welcome.  Please subscribe to the channel and click that notification bell  so that you'll be the first to know when a new video comes out.  Thanks for watching this video. We'll see you in the next one.  Take care. 