 Hello, and welcome to Mr. and Mrs. Social Studies.  My name is Sarah, and thank you for joining me  for today's video all about unit planning.  I did a video related to lesson planning a couple years ago  and wanted to do an updated version  as well as address the unit plan  and how I decide which pieces fit together with what.  So the easiest way to do this  will be to share my screen with you.  So let's jump in and take a look.  All right, so we are here in the unit plan.  Now, this is in PowerPoint.  I'm just going to duplicate this slide,  and this will be what I use for today's planning.  This unit planning template is also available  for Google Slides and Google Docs,  so you can decide what your preferences are  if you wish to use this template,  or simply get inspiration from this  and create a template that works for you.  So for this, in my last video, it was U.S. history,  so I'm gonna do some ancient world history.  This will be an ancient Egypt unit.  And again, this is just a sample I'm doing.  Now, when we're thinking about a unit plan,  we also wanna think about how long we are allotting for that  just because it can be helpful to sort of backwards plan  and know where you want to go  and about how long you want to spend,  which can help you keep moving  through whatever your curriculum is.  This is a four-week version,  but I also have a five- and a three-week version.  It can be helpful when we're breaking down  the activities in our unit plan  to think about how all the pieces come together,  and there are five main categories  that I like to think about when I'm lesson planning,  and I have those represented up here at the top.  There are your hook and intro pieces  where you're not only introducing a topic,  but also building connections and relevance  within the topic.  Now, this is important for history,  but really any subject.  How will you get students interested in your certain topic  and how will you get them to care about this topic?  That's important.  We also have direct instruction for skills and content.  When we think about teaching,  at least in the more traditional sense,  that's probably direct instruction.  This could include things like lectures.  It could also include readings,  whether that's from a textbook  or other sort of text that you're reading,  primary sources even, if you wish,  depending on the circumstance.  It could include videos.  So there's a lot of flexibility with that one.  Modeling or practice.  This has to do when an activity that students are doing  is helping them practice either a certain skill  or practice working with content.  And in general, I find these pair well together  because you'll be providing some direct instruction  about a certain topic, skill, or content area,  and then there will be some practice  to help students apply it.  And then we've got our two different types of assessment.  When we think about grades,  this is where these come into play.  Formative assessment being things  that are kind of checkpoints along the way  that you can use to see if students are getting something  and how they're doing with material.  And they're usually smaller point values  in terms of grading or not worth as much,  but it's a good chance to check progress.  Some districts actually don't even grade  formative assessments, so obviously do what your district  is doing or their policy.  And summative assessments are more of those bigger picture  type of resources or projects or unit tests  that are a culmination of a lot of these other pieces.  So maybe your summative assessment is the unit test.  Maybe it's a research paper students were working on  or a more involved project.  It can certainly vary, but you can use that to help you.  Now, with this, how we're going to go about it,  we've got two options.  One option is you can go chronological  and work on adding in the correct piece as you go.  So starting on the first day of the unit,  maybe it doesn't actually start on a Monday.  You can, of course, edit these  if you'd like it to be a different day.  And then you just work your way through that way,  kind of going in chronological order.  The other approach you can use is structure the unit  around these different subtopics  and then fill in the pieces with other areas.  If you wanted to do more of a backwards planning  kind of approach where you kind of visualize  the big picture of the unit first and then fill in the gaps,  I would recommend starting with direct instruction  and also the summative assessment  just to see how those pieces fit in.  But again, however it works best for you is great.  Now, I'm doing ancient Egypt, like I said,  and so I'm going to do a few elements of both  just so you can see them interact.  Let's say I was backwards planning  and I wanted to start out with my summative assessment.  I would simply click on this text box and copy and paste it.  I would drag where I want it to go.  So let's say this is an ancient Egypt test.  So I have just dragged that piece in.  Let's say I want to have a four-week unit  and I want this to be the very last day of that.  So that's kind of the backwards planning.  That's where we're going to if I'm doing that.  Of course, you could always do a project or a paper,  anything like that.  Then if I'm working backwards,  well, I do always want to make sure if there is a test,  I want to make sure my students are prepared for it.  So we're going to do some practice beforehand,  some test practice.  Now, some of my favorite review games to use  are things like Kahoot or a Quizlet.  So let's do a Kahoot for this, let's say.  So this will be for test review.  So I'm scheduling that the day before the test,  which will allow students to have a chance to prepare.  So again, that blocks out those two days.  I know that's how I'm going to end my unit.  We will now have some flexibility  going through the other components.  I'm going to jump back into the starting point.  Now, how do we make our units relevant to our students?  Obviously, it's going to vary a lot,  but I always start with a hook.  Now, for me, I always like to connect history  to modern times if possible.  In this case, I'm going to use Unit Introduction.  Actually, I'll start out Ancient Egypt  Unit Introduction Activity.  This is a resource that helps compare the past  and present of these times.  I'm going to shrink the font just a little bit  so it fits better there in that box.  But essentially, that is the handout  that I start with for my unit  and just make sure that kids are kind of understanding  the modern implications  so they can better compare the past.  Again, if you're not a history teacher,  that's probably not going to apply,  but some sort of hook that gets kids excited about it.  So we're starting with that.  Now, let's say I wanna think about what my key topics are.  So I'm going to copy and paste  a few of these orange blocks here.  Now, when I'm teaching about Ancient Egypt,  there's a few key topics I'm gonna be including.  There is vocabulary of Ancient Egypt,  helping students understand the vocabulary words.  And of course, you can have vocabulary words for any topic,  but that's a topic I wanna address.  Also, the geography of Ancient Egypt.  I'm going to kind of lay these on top here for a second.  There's no one right or wrong way to do this.  Another key topic I'll be thinking about  will be mummification.  That's a very interesting topic  that the students have a lot of questions about.  I also am going to wanna talk about pharaohs.  So again, I'm just kind of brainstorming  what my key talking points are going to be  or the key concepts we want to bring up  throughout this time period.  I also want to talk about the achievements of Ancient Egypt.  So achievements and inventions, oops.  So I've got some different key pieces here,  and I just laid these out across the top.  I'm going to kind of drag them in as I go.  Now for me, I think I would start with vocabulary  just because that's a really good  foundational starting place  to help work with some of the terminology.  And after I have thought of that,  let me slide this up here,  after I have included that,  if I'm providing some direct instruction about vocabulary,  that could be like going over the words with the kids,  more learning about the words,  the words with the kids, more lecture style.  It could be students reading about the different vocabulary.  So that's like the direct instruction piece.  How are students going to practice this?  Well, I'm going to copy and paste this yellow box here.  I've got some Google Drive Egypt activities  that they can work on.  So Google Drive vocab activities.  That will be the next step there.  So again, on that day,  I'm going to have both go on overview of the vocabulary  and have them practice it with those Google Drive activities.  Then let's say the next day,  we don't want to just practice vocab one day  and move on to the next direct instruction piece.  We're going to do more practice.  The bundle I have contains eight different activities.  So we'll do some of them on Tuesday  and some of them on Wednesday.  And then let's throw in a little bit  of some formative assessment  to see how they're doing with the vocab.  So in this case, I actually have some,  within that resource,  I've got some Google Forms that are self-grading.  Google Forms about vocab.  So these are self-grading,  which means it's a quick, easy thing  that I can do with the students  just to check in and see how they're doing with the material.  And I can decide to either take that for a grade or not.  I can also, within Google Forms, it's amazing.  I'm able to make the settings for it,  to change the settings that students can resubmit.  And a lot of times I don't actually even put grades in  because I just want it to be about practice.  So you can decide what works for you,  but we'll do a little bit of assessment  to see how they're doing with the vocab.  But I don't need like a major vocab quiz.  To me, that's not a priority,  but you could always do a summative  after you've done vocab practice.  Now I wanna get into the geography piece.  So with that, maybe I wanna do a slideshow  where I do a little bit of an overview about some of it.  But let's make it a little bit more engaging.  I've got a practice activity that can help.  Now, one thing I will say that can be a little bit dicey,  I love the color coding here.  Some activities are both practice and formative assessment.  So you can decide how you want to go about that.  I have a Google Earth field trip  that I'm going to right now classify  as modeling or practice,  but I could still take it as a grade  since it's not as much skill-based,  it's more of our students doing it.  So I'm gonna say Google Earth field trip.  The students have so much fun with this,  and I love, especially with history,  using this kind of a resource  because students can actually use Google Earth  to visualize these places.  Most students aren't going to get to travel  to ancient Egypt.  I mean, I have not been myself,  although I, at some point, would love to go in my life  to see these artifacts and places firsthand,  but I digress.  So I could say have students start this on Thursday,  start the Google Earth field trip on Thursday,  and then I could have students complete it on Friday.  We'll say complete Google Earth field trip on Friday.  Perfect.  So again, it's all the pieces building together.  Now, let's say the next week,  I provide an overview on mummification.  This is a very interesting topic  that kids have lots of questions about.  So I've got a reading about mummification I can use  and like a slideshow.  So I can use that to go over it.  There's also plenty of videos that I can pull in there  to give some upfront information about mummification  and start to answer kids' questions.  We also have a really fun mummy skit demonstration project.  It's often a highlight that students have.  So for that, it's a multi-day project.  So let's say they start working that on Tuesday.  So start mummification demonstration project.  Maybe Tuesday's day one.  Of course, this is not as good of a resource  for times of virtual learning and social distancing.  So in this 2020 school year, this  is not the most ideal project, but it  has been a ton of fun to do with students.  So this assignment requires several student work days.  So I'm going to plug in.  Actually, I can remove the start here.  We'll say continue up here.  So we've got that happening.  And then since that is a bigger project,  when they do their presentations on Monday,  I will count that as a summative.  So this will be presentation day for mummification demonstration.  So again, it's all about just seeing  how these pieces fit together.  We're doing good.  So I've got a little over two weeks planned,  and I have two topics left to include.  I'm going to do the pharaohs first.  But just because I want to make things engaging,  it's been a little while.  Although this is a very hands-on lesson,  it's been a while since I did more  of that hook or intro activity that makes it really relevant.  So I'm going to do that actually with my pharaoh section.  One of my favorite ways to teach about historical people  has to do with thinking about it from the perspective of a job  fair.  I don't think career skills are taught enough for our students.  So we're going to introduce the job fair.  So I'm going to drag that over here.  In this, with our resumes and job fairs,  you get to actually choose a position, a job  that you want students to be hiring for.  And I've got actually resumes of the pharaohs,  in addition to other historical leaders.  So I want my students to analyze those resumes.  So let's see.  I'll type that in as, so read over pharaoh resumes.  That will be the first portion here.  So make that a little smaller.  Perfect.  And so I've hooked it by introducing the job fair  concept of how our students will be hiring for these.  I'll also help model some skills related to that.  So maybe we'll do that on Wednesday.  So maybe we will model some hiring practices.  We'll say that for now.  Kind of teach them what to look for in a resume  and help them evaluate the pros and cons about applicants.  Resumes are also an awesome resource  instead of just like a one-page reading,  because especially for students who maybe don't  find a lot of joy in reading or look at a page  and feel kind of overwhelmed, a resume  is more of a bullet point style, which  means that it's a little easier for our students to follow.  And it gives you the highlights, these key details  of these individuals without burdening them.  So I love doing this so much for historical figures.  So again, model the hiring and job skills.  And then the assessment piece is students  making the hiring decisions and explaining their reasoning.  So completing, oops, we'll say completion of hiring form  about who they wish to hire.  Perfect.  So again, within that two-day window, it's fairly narrow.  But you're able to not only hook the students' attention  and get them excited, we are giving them  some direct instruction through the form  of a reading of the resumes.  I'm able to model the job-related skills  to the students to help them know what  they're doing in the activity.  And then I'm able to assess how they did  with this formative assessment here  with their completion of the hiring form, which  is like a Google Doc.  So it's perfect.  You get all those different pieces in there  in a short window.  That's wonderful.  And now we've got our achievements here.  Now, with that in mind, this I could stretch out the Ferris  because I've got a couple extra days here.  Now, I do always like to leave an extra day kind of open.  So maybe that is a good thing to include here just in case  something took longer than I planned.  So I'm actually going to add that in.  Let's just go ahead and copy one of these and drag that in here.  And because I don't have an extra day category,  I'm going to actually just change the color on this.  So to do that, I can click.  While I've got this clicked on, I'm  going to go to Shape Format.  And I can change the color.  So just because I want it to stand out  as its own separate thing, let's just use a light gray here.  I know not as beautiful, but I'm going  to just write this as an open day.  So basically, the premise here is  something's going to take longer than you expect.  And so because of that, having the open day  scheduled at least one or two per unit  gives you that coverage.  You could also use this kind of format  if you've got some holidays where you're not  in school or other factors like an assembly.  Again, not really a big thing here in 2020  as we have been socially distanced and virtual  teaching, but you can plug in those weird days  or different days by either leaving them blank  or using another text box here.  All right, so that gives me four days to work with then.  So Achievements and Inventions.  So for that, I could have students do a textbook reading  maybe for this one to get us started.  And actually, just in case, we're  doing a lot here on the Tuesday and Wednesday,  so I'm going to schedule it here.  And then in this spot, I will write in,  we'll do a formative assessment piece, finish hiring form.  Could also be used as a catch-up day  and as just an extra practice activity.  I've got an early finishers sheet.  So if I wanted to build in a day to give people  a chance to finish something up or to kind of slow down  the pace, I could throw in that early finishers sheet  just as an extra practice.  OK, so then we've got our Achievements and Inventions  textbook reading that I can do for that.  Perfect.  And then one of the key achievements  that I want students to practice with  will actually be our hieroglyphics.  So we've got a really fun hieroglyphics activity  that helps students work with the hieroglyphics  and translate some secret messages.  So we'll do that activity to help students actually  apply what we're learning about with the Achievements  and Inventions.  And then to build on that, maybe I also then the next day  just to incorporate another achievement.  We haven't really talked about pyramids yet.  So maybe there is a pyramids video  I'll have the students watch.  And then maybe I create an Ed Puzzle,  which gives students a chance to actually we'll  do green for the Ed Puzzle.  Again, that could go either way, yellow or green.  But maybe I do the Ed Puzzle about the video,  which is a couple multiple choice or basic questions  about what they were learning about in the video  to bring it to life more.  Again, it's so flexible.  You obviously decide what is best for you.  And then like we saw earlier, we scheduled  that Egypt test and the Kahoot.  Now, what I love about this is I can kind of zoom out and see,  OK, this is what I put together for this unit.  And I think the color coding helps us  a lot with making sure that we've got  different pieces represented.  So if I think big picture, this can also  help us with grading what assignments we're grading.  And so when I take a look at this,  I have two summative assessments here,  which are going to be much larger point  values and bigger pieces that are  a culmination of various work days  in the case of the mummification demonstration or the mummy  project skit.  And then also the test here, which  covers a variety of content students learned here  in the orange.  Also, I've got some formative assessment grades.  So whether it's Google Form, this could also technically,  the Google Earth field trip could also be a green thing.  So maybe starting it's the yellow  and maybe I decide to switch this to green.  It's totally flexible.  If I wanted to switch it to the green,  I could just go to shape format and then  select the green one there if I decided to do that.  And then from there, I have the hiring form is a grade  and then ed puzzle.  So then from this four week time period,  maybe we've got six key grades.  Again, it's totally up to you how you handle these.  It's your own teaching, of course.  But that's just a sample way of putting it all together.  And again, with this, I did create a copy or duplicate  the slide before I began.  So I still had my blank template here.  But then let's say you're happy with this  and you wanted to save it or print it.  This will not show up in the screen share.  But if I click on file, then I could either  export it as a PDF if I wanted to save it that way.  You could also save it as a PNG file  if you wanted to save it as an image.  You could save the current slide only.  Or you could just click print to print out  that slide that you need.  You've got a lot of flexibility.  But that is just a way that I put it together.  And the cool thing is if you do this bigger picture,  let's say I did this with each of my units,  it'd be really cool in one file here  to have all the different units there.  And again, the visual is really helpful.  Of course, this doesn't cover me completely.  I'll still have individual lesson plans  that share the objectives and specific standards.  But this can be a good way to see it at a glance.  That wraps up today's video about unit planning.  I hope you found it helpful.  As I mentioned before, in the description field of this video,  you can find a link to the template  that I used if you think it would be beneficial to you.  Please also let me know if you've  got any questions related to anything I talked about today.  And if you like this video, you might also  enjoy some of these videos and subscribing  to the channel right up here.  We'll see you in the next video.  Bye. 