 Hello and welcome. My name's Michelle. I'm going to take you through some basic first  aid videos on behalf of Get Licensed. So my background is based primarily in leisure.  I have been a first aider for about 20 years and I have been a life guide trainer, assessor  and first aid trainer and assessor for about 10 years. I've had lots of experience dealing  with first aids, lots of different spinal injuries, bleeds, breaks, pretty much anything  you can imagine I've come across and I'm hoping that I'm going to be able to help you feel  more confident about dealing with any of those types of things if you ever come across them.  So throughout these basic first aid videos, I'm going to be taking you through the syllabus  of an emergency first aid at work course, plus a few more advanced topics from first  aid at work as well. So the sort of subjects we're going to be covering is your primary  survey, CPR, choking, epilepsy, burns, amongst a few others as well. I hope you enjoy them.  So what is first aid? First aid is the initial assistance that is given to somebody that  is injured or has become unwell until further medical assistance arrives. So if that is  you, you need to make sure that first and foremost that you are not in any danger.  You are the most important person and make sure that there's no further danger to the  casualty as well. There's some priorities of first aid that I'm going to talk you through.  The first one is preserve life. So ultimately that is what we're trying to achieve. So we  don't want anyone to die. So if we're going to get an AED and use that, do CPR, obviously  that's all going to help preserve life as well as calling the ambulance. The second  one is to alleviate any suffering. So anything we can do to do that, then maybe just lying  somebody down, sitting them down, just comforting them, maybe applying an ice pack or cold  water if they've burned themselves, anything like that that can alleviate suffering. The  next one is to prevent it from getting any worse. So that might be by applying direct  pressure to an open wound. It might be, again, sitting them down or lying them down and raising  their legs before they fall down if they're feeling faint or anything like that. And the  last one is to promote recovery. So to promote recovery, that might be getting them a drink.  If they are low on blood sugar levels, it might be getting them to the hospital as quickly  as possible. Okay, so there are your priorities of first aid. Preserve life, alleviate suffering,  prevent the situation from getting any worse and promote recovery.  So let's have a little look at what you'll find in a first aid kit. There is a minimum  recommendation of what to have in here. So you'll find a guidance leaflet. You'll find  some plasters. You should have some gloves in there, which is very important for your  hygiene. You should always wear gloves when doing any type of first aid, even if there's  not any visual bodily fluid, you should have them on just in case. You've also got triangular  bandages, which can be used for quite a few things actually, but slings is one of  the main ones. You may have some ice packs, but usually that is an additional requirement  that is added in after looking at a risk assessment. Also scissors might be an added requirement.  And you have different shaped and size bandages, so medium, large, small. You also have some  eye bandages in case anyone has an eye injury. And you may have some adhesive tape as well  to help apply any dressings. Okay, so this is some of what you'll find in your first  aid kit. If you do find yourself having to do any type of first aid, like I said, hygiene  is really important. So wearing your gloves, but also washing your hands beforehand and  also afterwards. Thinking about any cuts that you may have on your hands or up your arm,  making sure that they are fully covered. Also if you have a cold or anything like that,  if you're coughing or sneezing a lot, perhaps try and get somebody else to do that first  aid for that day. Or just make sure you don't cough or sneeze over an open wound. And just  keep yourself and the casualty safe. Okay, so I'm going to take you through your  primary survey now, which is basically looking for anything life-threatening and dealing  with that with your casualty. So throughout your primary survey, we're going to look at  an acronym called Doctor's ABC, which hopefully will help you remember this a little bit easier.  So D is checking for danger. So first and foremost, any danger for yourself. You are  the most important person, so we don't want you to get injured. Plus if you get injured,  then you obviously can't help the person that needed your help to begin with. So have a  look around for anything that could injure you, just general objects that could get in  your way whilst dealing with the casualty. Any gas glass, fire wire, anything more serious,  remove them and only when it's safe to do so, approach your casualty.  Okay, so we've removed any dangers. We now want to check for response. So you've got  your doctor, we're on your R, so response. Is there any response from your casualty?  Are they alert? Do they respond to any voice prompts if they're not alert? So hello, can  you hear me? Can you open your eyes? Anything like that. If they don't respond to that,  do they respond to a tap on the shoulders? If they don't respond to that, then we would  deem them unresponsive. If you are on your own at this point, you're not going to want  to deal with that on your own, so just shout for help, okay? And then move on to checking  the airway, okay? So that's doctor's A. So airway, and what we mean by airway is opening  the airway. So we're going to use a head tilt chin lift, which I'm going to show you on  somebody in a moment, okay? And by doing that, could actually save a life already. Where  the muscles will relax when somebody's laying on their back, the tongue will relax on the  potentially on the back of their throat and could block the airway. So just by doing  a head tilt chin lift, we could have already saved their life. Once we've done a head tilt  chin lift, so we've opened the airway, we're then going to check for breathing, okay? And  we're going to do that for 10 seconds. We're going to be looking at the chest, rising and  falling, and we're going to be listening and feeling for breath on our cheek as well. So  we're going to get nice and close to the casualty. If we find that they are breathing normally,  then we will have a look for any obvious signs of any injuries and deal with those,  and then place them into what we call the recovery position, which is to maintain an  open airway, which I'm now going to show you.  So I'm going to show you practically now how to do your primary survey, okay? So I've checked  for danger. There's nothing around that looks like it's going to cause me or my casualty  any harm. So now I'm going to check for response. I'm going to talk into both ears just in case  there's any hearing impairment at all in one of the ears. Hello, can you hear me?  Can you open your eyes? If that doesn't work, a little tap or shake on the shoulder, okay?  There's no response. So like I said earlier, if you're on your own at this point, shout  for some help. Can I have some help? Now we're going to open the airway using a head tilt  chin lift. So one hand on the forehead, two fingers underneath the chin, lift and lift  the chin and tilt the head back. So I've opened the airway. I'm now going to check  for breathing. So I'm looking for the rise and fall of the chest and I'm listening for  breathing and I'm feeling for the breath on my cheek as well. So he is breathing normally.  So if I have any help at this point, I'm going to ask them to just stand by and I will shortly  be asking for a first aid kit and an ambulance as well if he hasn't come to. So I'm going  to place him in a recovery position now. So I mentioned this earlier and this is just  a safe position to maintain an open airway. If I leave him on his back, the tongue might  relax on the back of the throat, which could cause him to not be able to breathe. Also,  he could be sick and he could choke on the vomit. Okay. So first of all, for your recovery  position, what we're going to do is place the arm closest to us up out of the way and  just wherever that falls naturally. Don't try and force it down, just as though it's  out the way. So I'm going to bring him towards me in a moment. I don't want him to squash  his arm. I'm going to lean over and grab the forearm and I'm going to link fingers with  the casualty and I'm going to place his hand against his cheek and I'm going to continue  to hold the hand there. You might have to shuffle down a little bit because what you're  going to do now is grab the outside of the leg that's furthest away from you and you're  going to lift that as high as you possibly can so the foot is as close to the bottom  as possible. That is now your lever. So any size casualty should be able to turn any size  casualty. Okay. So I'm going to push down quite firm to bring the casualty over and  just take that foot off of his leg there and then I'm going to slowly just take my hand  away and most importantly, I'm going to make sure the airway is open. Okay. So if he's  like this, the airway is shut. So all I'm doing is just lifting the chin up slightly  to make sure the airway is open. A couple of other things to think about before you  turn your casualty is do they have anything in their pockets? If they do, consider turning  them to the side that they don't have anything in or maybe take it out, but just be careful  and place that by the casualty's head. Also, if your casualty is wearing glasses, you may  want to take those off because they might be uncomfortable for them, but again, just  make sure they're by the casualty's head so if they do start to come to, we can quickly  get them back on for them. Also, if you have a lady that's quite heavily pregnant,  then lay them towards the left side. That is safer for the lady and the baby. Okay.  So I'm now going to ask my helper to go and call 999 because I have a adult casualty that  is breathing normally, but is unresponsive and has been for a good couple of minutes.  So we've looked at our primary survey, assessing for anything life-threatening. I'm just going  to talk a little bit about a secondary survey. So that's something that you might do for  a conscious casualty or it could be an unconscious casualty as well. So your secondary survey  consists of looking at your history, signs and symptoms. So the history might be the  history of the casualty, so perhaps any medical conditions that they've had that could link  to why they're a casualty at the moment. It could be any medication that they're on or  literally the history leading up to what's just happened. So any physical activity or  an accident of some kind that they've just had. Then we're going to look at the signs.  So what can you visually see? Can you see that the casualty is perhaps sweaty? Do they  look pale, flushed in appearance? Do they have any cuts or any obvious deformity or  broken bones? And that can all help piece together what you're dealing with. You've  then got symptoms. So that's something that the casualty can tell you. So it's really  important that you listen to your casualty if they're able to speak to you. So they may  tell you that they feel sick, that they feel hot, they feel cold. Anything, any information  they can give you can help determine how to treat them.  For this video, I'm going to show you how to deal with an adult that is not breathing.  Okay, so we're going to go back to our primary survey that we looked at earlier to start  with. So check for danger, check for response. Hello, can you hear me? Can you open your  eyes? There's no response. If you don't have any help at this point, then shout for some  help. Open the airway, head tilt, chin lift, and check for breathing for 10 seconds. Look  at the chest rise and fall in, and listen and feel in for breathing.  What we're looking for here is for normal breathing. Okay, so anything other than normal  breathing, we would start CPR. There's something called agonal gasps, which are kind of like  the last breaths that may sound a little like this. Okay, that's not normal breathing. That's  not what any of us are doing right now. So anything other than normal breathing or you're  not sure, start CPR. Okay, so my casualty is not breathing. I'm going to ask my helpers  to go and get an ambulance and get a defib as quickly as they can, and I'm going to start  CPR. So we're just going to try and buy some time for them by pumping on the chest and  doing the breaths if you feel confident to do so. There might be a reason why you might  not want to do the breaths if there's any blood or sick or anything like that, and that's  fine. Just wait until there's a pocket mask or just do continuous chest compressions.  So I've checked for breathing. I've sent off for an ambulance and a defib. I'm now going  to start CPR. So I'm going to place my hand right in the centre of the chest, right on  the breastbone. So heel of my hand right in the centre. The other hand is going to  come over and I'm going to link fingers, and I'm just going to try and put pressure right  on the breastbone, not on any of this part of the chest. A couple of pointers to make  the compressions a little bit easier for yourself, but also the most effective for your casualty.  Make sure that you place yourself as close to your casualty as possible. When you're  placing your hand, make sure it is the heel of your hand right in the centre of the chest,  a couple of centimetres above the bottom of the breastbone. Other hand's going to come  over and link fingers. You're going to bring your shoulders in line with the rest of your  arm, okay, so you're above your casualty. Lock your elbows and then just come straight  down on the chest. Make sure you fully release on the chest when you're doing your compressions,  but don't come off the chest. We don't want to be bouncing. So I'm going to push down  five to six centimetres. So that's 30 compressions, and that's at a rate of about two per second,  so between 100 to 120 per minute. After those 30 compressions, without delay, we  need to do some breaths. So head tilt, chin lift again, but this time we need to pinch  the nose to get a good seal because we're going to blow in the mouth. So put your mouth  around there. Do one breath, come away, take a breath yourself, and then do a second breath.  As you can see, the chest is rising. If you're not sure if the chest has rose or if you think  it was unsuccessful, just try those two attempts and make sure you've got a good  seal and a head tilt, chin lift is applied. Don't continue to keep putting those breaths  in to make up for ones that are missed because you could be there all day if there's a blockage  or something else wrong. After those two breaths, straight back into your 30 compressions.  And then your two breaths. And you can continue to do that at a rate of 30 compressions to  two breaths until your AED comes or the ambulance come. The only reason you would stop CPR is  if you were really exhausted and there was no one else that could take over, you would  have to stop. If the casualty was to come to, which obviously we would hope would be  the case, or if the paramedics tell you to stop when they do arrive. Remember, check  for danger, check for response, make sure you've got some help, open the airway, check  for breathing. If they're not breathing, ask for an ambulance and a defib to come back  to you as quickly as possible. And start CPR by doing 30 compressions at a depth of five  to six centimetres and a rate of 100 to 120 per minute. And then your two rescue breaths  followed by your 30 compressions to two rescue breaths and just continue that.  Okay, so when you're doing CPR, there may be a couple of problems that might arise.  So just so that you're prepared for them, I'll let you know. One of them is the possibility  of breaking a rib. If you do break a rib, please try not to worry. It is at the bottom  of our priorities. Breathing is first. Just make sure your hands are right in the centre  of the chest and continue to do what you're doing at the correct depth. Don't change the  depth of your compressions. Okay, another couple of things that might happen is the  casualty might be sick. Don't worry about that. Just turn your casualty away from you,  allow them to be sick, drain away, come back, check for breathing and then carry on CPR  if they're still not breathing.  Okay, so earlier I asked for an AED when I had a non-breathing casualty. An AED is  an automated external defibrillator. It's a really clever piece of kit and it can increase  the casualty's chance of survival anywhere up to around 75% if it's got to them within  the first couple of minutes. So what this piece of kit will actually do is analyse the  casualty's heart rhythm and determine whether there's a shockable rhythm. It will try and  shock the heart in order to stop the heart to bring it back to its normal beat, normal  rhythm. Okay, so I'm just going to open this up and let you see what's in here. It's a  really safe piece of kit. It can't harm you, so nothing to worry about. So what you're  going to find is potentially a pocket mask, towel, razor and scissors and the pads that  we're going to apply onto the chest later, which I'll explain. So the scissors might  be needed if we need to cut off any clothing. So the pads, I'll show you now, these ones,  need to go directly onto bare skin. Okay, so we might need to cut clothing off. The  razor is used if the chest is particularly hairy in the areas where we're going to place  the pads. So we just need to have a quick shave of those areas to ensure the pads are  going to stick properly. Pocket masks should be used any time when you're doing mouth-to-mouth,  so as soon as you have one, use them and I'll open this up later on the casualty and show  you. And the towel is going to be used if we need to dry the areas off, again, where  the pads need to go, just so we can get good contact to the skin. If we don't have good  contact to the skin, then when it does shock, it won't transfer through the heart as we  need it to or it won't be as effective. Okay, so the defib that I'm showing you here is  quite a lot smaller than the real defib, but it does act and explain things just as the  real one would. Okay, so what I'm going to do now is I'm going to show you on a adult  mannequin how to use the AED. Okay, so I'm going to show you how to use the AED now.  So I've got my casualty that's not breathing, so I've done my primary survey, I've checked  for danger, checked for response, I've opened the airway and checked for breathing, established  that the casualty is not breathing normally, so I've asked for them to go and get an ambulance  and bring an AED back for me as quickly as they can. Whilst they're off doing that, I'm  going to buy the casualty some time by doing my 30 compressions to 2 breaths and continuing  that cycle of 30 to 2. As soon as the AED comes back, I'm going to stop what I'm doing  on the casualty and I'm going to open up the defib, okay, because this is going to give  them the best chance of survival. So if there's anything to the chest that I need to prepare,  so drying it off or taking off any clothes, so using the scissors or using the razor if  the chest is particularly hairy, then I'm going to prep all of that. Make sure I turn  the AED on and listen to the instructions.  Apply pads to patient's bare chest. Plug in pads connector next to flashing light.  So on the pads it does have pictures, diagrams of exactly where they need to go.  Apply pads. Plug in connector.  So just do that one at a time.  Apply pads. Plug in connector.  Analysing heart rhythm.  Do not touch the patient.  Everyone stand clear.  Shock advised.  Charging.  Stay clear of patient.  No one touch the patient.  Deliver shock now. Shock delivered.  Begin CPR.  So as soon as the AED tells you to continue CPR, do so without delay.  As you can hear, some of them have a metronome, so it instructs you when to beep, but you're  still doing your 30 compressions to two rescue breaths.  You'll continue to do that for around two minutes whilst the defib recharges and then  analyses the heart rhythm again and lets you know whether it's going to shock or not.  Then it will instruct you whether to continue CPR.  The only reason you're going to stop is if the casualty shows definite signs of life  or the paramedics ask you to or you're physically exhausted.  Now obviously if you did have somebody else with you, you don't have to be trained to  use an AED, although it does obviously give you a lot more confidence, but if you did  have someone else, get them to do that whilst you continue to do compressions and breaths  and they can work around you with the defib.  If you have a casualty that's not breathing and obviously you need to do mouth-to-mouth,  then using a pocket mask is the best thing to do mouth-to-mouth with.  It just protects you if they are sick or if they have swallowed anything that's potentially  poisonous that could get into your system.  You're going to open it up. There is a little attachment that comes with it that I'm going  to show you in a moment. You just need to push this bit out so it looks like this.  There is the word nose here so it tells you exactly where you need to place it.  It needs to come over the mouth and nose. Make a little diamond shape with your fingers  and push down on the casualty's face.  I'm then going to still apply a chin lift and tilt the head back.  Then I should just be able to apply the same amount of pressure with regards to the breath  when I'm doing the breaths.  If you do have an attachment like I showed you earlier, I don't always have them because  they are only one use, then do use it because that just gives you another filter so a little  bit of added protection. Just pop that on and then use it normally like I've just shown you.  If you do have a smaller child or a baby and you want to use a pocket mask, then you may  want to consider just turning it upside down because their face is a lot smaller and it  does fit on a little bit better that way. Otherwise for an adult, just like that.  If you find yourself in an emergency situation where you have a casualty that is not breathing,  there is something called the chain of survival which is absolutely key to giving somebody  the best chance of survival in living.  The chain of survival consists of four links. The first one is early recognition and call  for help. If you find someone that's not breathing, we need to establish that they are not breathing  and it's not normal breathing, recognise that and call for help. Call for an ambulance and  get an AED as quickly as possible.  The second link is early CPR. Apply in CPR your 30 compressions to two rescue breaths  as quickly as possible and that will buy your casualty some time whilst the defib and the  ambulance is on its way.  The third link is early AED, so automated external defibrillator. As soon as that is available,  get that applied to the casualty and use it as directed to do so by the AED unit.  The AED unit can increase your chance of survival anywhere up to about 75% if it's got to them  in the first minute or two of collapsing and that will decrease by about 10% every minute  it's delayed after that time.  The fourth link in the chain of survival is early post-resuscitation care. So basically  making sure that they can get to hospital, get that medication and equipment, specialised  medical equipment that they need as early as possible.  So I'm going to show you how to deal with a child that is not breathing. Okay, so it's  similar in respect to the primary survey that we've done for the adult casualty earlier  but there are some differences in the process of CPR, mainly because the reason that they  are potentially not breathing is more of a respiratory issue, whereas with an adult  casualty it's more of a heart problem that we're dealing with.  Okay, so you're going to check for danger. So again, first and foremost for yourself,  but then also for your casualty and remove any danger or if you can't, then wait until  someone can assist you.  If there isn't any danger, then we're going to check for response.  Hello, can you hear me? Can you open your eyes?  Okay, there's no response. If you're on your own, then shout for some help.  Open the airway, head tilt, chin lift, but just not as far back as you would on an adult  casualty and then get nice and close to the face and check for breathing for 10 seconds.  So we're looking for the chest rising and falling and we're listening and feeling for  breath on our cheek.  Okay, so the casualty is not breathing, so I'm going to ask somebody to go and get me  an ambulance and a defib and come back as quickly as they can and I'm going to start CPR.  So like I said, because this is a respiratory issue, we're going to start off with giving  them some much needed rescue breaths.  So, head tilt, chin lift, pinch the nose, get a nice seal and we're going to put five  rescue breaths in the mouth.  We're just going to use one hand, again, right in the centre of the chest on the breastbone  and we're going to apply pressure at three to four centimetres, around a third of the  chest depth and we're going to do that 30 times.  Then we're going to do two rescue breaths.  And then back to 30 compressions.  So, five initial rescue breaths.  If they don't come round after those five initial rescue breaths, we're going to very  quickly go on to our 30 compressions, two rescue breaths and then continue that cycle  of 30 to two until the defib comes and or the ambulance arrives.  So, I'm going to show you how to deal with a baby that is not breathing now, which is  probably one of the most scariest things people can think of when we're dealing with a first  aid situation.  Hopefully, I can put your mind at ease a little bit and just remember, if no one else knows  what they're doing, anything that you can do is better than nothing in this type of  situation.  Okay, so we're going to check for danger.  There isn't any danger, so I'm going to check for response.  Check for response on the baby.  You can still try and talk to them, see if they can respond to noise.  Maybe clap close to their face, blow in their face, see if there's a reaction.  A little squeeze, tiggle on the feet or hands.  Okay, so there's no response, so again, if you're on your own, make sure you've got some  help and I'm going to open the airway.  When you're opening the airway for a baby, you need to be very careful and don't tilt  the head all the way back, just in a neutral position.  I'm going to check for breathing for 10 seconds.  Okay, so the baby isn't breathing normally, so I'm going to ask for an ambulance and a  defib and I'm going to start CPR.  Again, with a baby, we suspect it's a respiratory issue, so we're going to start with five rescue  breaths.  Because the baby's features are so small, we're going to place our mouth over the mouth  and the nose.  When it comes to doing the 30 compressions, I'm going to use two fingers right in the  centre of the chest and we're going to put a third of the chest up.  After your 30 compressions, two rescue breaths.  Then back to your 30 compressions.  Okay, so for a baby that's not breathing, check for danger, check for response, make  sure you've got some help, open your airway, check for breathing for 10 seconds and then  start by giving five initial rescue breaths by placing your mouth over the mouth and the  nose.  And then do your 30 compressions with two fingers and then two rescue breaths.  Back to 30 compressions and two rescue breaths.  And keep doing that cycle until your defib arrives.  Okay, so hopefully if a baby or a child has stopped breathing, you doing your initial  five rescue breaths is going to help.  If a baby or a child has stopped breathing, you doing your initial five rescue breaths  along with CPR will hopefully bring them round.  But in the event that they don't, we have asked for a defib, so when it comes to us  we're going to apply the defib.  But it is a little bit different than what we saw on the adult earlier.  Okay, so you'd usually have paediatric pads with your defib or you may have the ability  to be able to change the amount of joules that is going to go through the casualties,  the amount of energy.  For paediatric pads, that is for under the age of eight and obviously from eight and  above we would use that for the adult pads.  So you would do exactly the same as you did before, so turn the defib on and apply the  pads as instructed to do so.  But as you can see from here, we are going to place them in a slightly different area.  So it tells us to put one on the back and again they can't have any clothes on, needs  to be bare skin.  So one in the centre of the back in between the shoulder blades.  We're basically going to sandwich them in, so then one in the centre on the chest as  well.  Okay, and that will be exactly the same on the baby, so one on the front and one on the  back.  But obviously with no clothes on.  Alright guys, I'm going to show you what to do if you suspect that somebody is choking.  So we're going to look at an adult casualty to start with.  So if you suspect someone is choking, perhaps you've seen the adult casualty and you've  So if you suspect someone is choking, perhaps you've seen them eat something and then start  to panic.  Maybe they're clutching at their throat, maybe they're changing colour, maybe initially  red to start with and then signs of cyanosis, so blueness of the lips.  What we're going to do first if we suspect they're choking, we're going to ask, are you  choking?  Are you choking?  He's nodded, he is choking.  Okay, so the next thing we're going to do, if he is able to cough, we're just going to  encourage coughing.  So just keep coughing.  That's it, keep coughing.  Well done, keep coughing.  So as soon as the coughing becomes ineffective, we're going to have to take physical action.  So we're going to get our casualty to lean forward and we're going to support them across  the chest and hold onto the shoulder and we're going to apply some back blows.  So we're going to put the palm of our hand in the middle of their shoulder blades and  we're going to do one back blow and we're going to come and check to see if they're  managing to catch their breath or if an object has fallen out.  If it hasn't, we're going to do a second back blow, check again.  A third, if it's not successful, check again.  Still hasn't worked.  Fourth back blow, check again.  And a fifth back blow, check again.  Okay, if that hasn't worked, we're going to have to try something different.  So we're going to try something called abdominal thrust.  You may have heard it called the Heimlich Maneuver.  So we're going to place our hand, you're going to find the belly button and the bottom  of the breastbone on the casualty and make your way into the middle.  Place a fist in that point and place your other hand over the top.  And what we're going to do is push in and up in one action into the diaphragm and  hopefully that will release the object.  One, check.  Two, check.  Three, check.  Four.  Has it come out?  No.  Five.  Okay, if it still hasn't come out at that point, we're going to class it as one cycle.  So up to five back blows and five abdominal thrusts.  So if after one cycle it hasn't come out, ask somebody to call an ambulance if they haven't already.  And then we're going to continue that cycle.  So we're going to do one, check.  Two, check.  Three, four, five, checking after each one.  If that's not successful, back to your abdominal thrusts.  Again, up to five, checking after each one.  It's important that you do check.  It may not be obvious it's come out straight away.  They may be catching their breath and not be able to tell you.  So the last thing they're going to want is more smacks on the back or abdominal thrusts  because it can cause quite a bit of internal damage.  So do make sure you're checking.  Okay, so if the item does come out, then brilliant.  But we're still going to get them to go to hospital to get checked out,  just in case, as I say, they have done any internal damage.  Or if the ambulance is on its way already, then they can check them out when they get here.  If it doesn't come out, it won't be long until they do collapse.  So if they do collapse to the floor, we are going to start doing CPR.  So we don't need to check for breathing.  We know they're not breathing because they've been choking and they've collapsed for that reason.  So we're just going to go straight into 30 compressions to two rescue breaths.  Checking the mouth before each rescue breath,  just to see if there's any obvious signs of any food or whatever it is they may have choked on,  which we can easily remove and then continue with our rescue breaths.  Okay, so I'm going to show you how to deal with a child that is choking.  If you suspect a child is choking, that might be due to the fact that they have just been eating  and now they looked quite panicked.  It may be that they're changing colour in the face,  maybe initially going quite red and then losing colour and maybe going a little bit blue in the lips.  All right, so what we're going to do is we're going to ask, are they choking?  And just establish that they are choking,  so we don't unnecessarily do a procedure that could hurt them for no reason.  Okay, so are you choking?  He tells me, he gives me the nod, he's choking.  Okay, so what I'm going to do is I'm going to lean him as far forward as I can,  let gravity help as much as I can.  Obviously, depending on the size of the child will allow you to do it a lot more if they're smaller.  So, lean them over and we're going to do back blows.  So, right in the middle of the shoulder blades, I'm going to use the heel of my hand.  So, one, check, two, check, see if it's come out, three, four, check, five.  So, I'm going to do that five times.  Okay, it hasn't been successful, so I'm going to try something else now.  I'm going to try abdominal thrust.  So, I'm going to find the belly button and the bottom of the breastbone and meet in the middle,  make a fist, I'm going to bring my other hand over the top  and I'm going to come in and up into the diaphragm to hopefully release the object.  So, one, check, two, three, check, four, still not successful, five, check.  Okay, still not successful.  So, we class that as one cycle.  So, up to five back blows and up to five abdominal thrusts is one cycle.  If it's not successful after that, send somebody to go and get an ambulance.  And we're going to repeat that cycle again.  So, up to five back blows, checking after each one.  And then back to your abdominal thrust if that is unsuccessful.  Okay, and just keep repeating that process.  You're probably not going to be able to repeat it too many more times before the child does actually collapse.  So, if they do collapse, what we're going to do is go straight into CPR.  And unlike normal CPR, we're actually going to start with 30 compressions for the child  just because we know at this point that the breaths aren't going to get in  even though they do desperately need those breaths.  So, we're going to do 30 compressions.  After your 30 compressions,  we're going to have a look in the mouth.  See if there's anything that we can release.  And then open the airway and do two rescue breaths.  If one or both of them don't go in, don't worry.  Go back to your 30 compressions and then try again next time.  Hopefully, now the muscles are all relaxed.  You're going to have a look in the mouth.  See if there's anything that we can release.  And then open the airway and do two rescue breaths.  Hopefully, now the muscles are all relaxed.  The object might have moved on its own  or perhaps even by us doing the compressions, it has managed to move.  So, we're going to continue to do that until our ambulance arrives  and we need to make sure that we've also asked for a defib.  So, like any choking situation, is time critical?  If you've got a baby that you suspect is choking,  what we need to do is get their head lower than the rest of their body as quickly as possible  and hopefully gravity will help.  If that doesn't help on its own, we're going to have to do some back blows.  So, we're going to apply five back blows right in the centre,  sorry, in between the shoulder blades.  I'm going to check.  Make sure you support the head and neck.  Two.  Three.  Four.  Five.  Okay, if that hasn't worked,  we're going to turn the baby over  and again get the head as low as possible  and we're going to do chest thrusts.  So, we're going to put our fingers one level below the nipple line  and we'll do one chest thrust, check the mouth.  Two.  Check the mouth.  Three.  Check again.  Four.  Five.  If that's not been successful, that is one cycle.  If someone hasn't already, make sure that they've called the ambulance and they've got a defib  and we're going to turn the baby back over again  and apply the back blows.  Again, up to five, checking after each one.  And then back to your chest thrusts,  checking after each one.  Okay.  Now, hopefully that will work.  If it doesn't, the baby stops breathing  so they'll probably go very floppy,  so all the arms and legs will flop  and they would have lost colour in their face  and maybe have blue tinges in their lips.  We're going to place them on a hard surface  and we're going to start CPR.  We're going to start with 30 compressions  just because there's no point in doing the breasts at this stage  because we know it's not going to go in because they've got a blockage.  So, 30 compressions.  And we're going to bring the baby over.  And just before I do the two rescue breaths,  I'm going to have a little look in the mouth.  If there's anything that's visible and easy to reach,  I'm going to take that out and then do the two rescue breaths.  If one or even both of them aren't successful,  I don't attempt to do them again.  Nid ydych chi'n ymwneud â'i wneud newydd, rydw i'n mynd i'r ffwrdd i'n ymgyrchau.  A gobeithio, er bod y bod yn dechrau'n ysbrydoli,  mae'r musglau yn ysbrydoli, bydd yr obiect yn mynd,  neu efallai i mi wneud yr ymgyrchau, bydd yn mynd  a bydd y brethyn yn ymgyrchu.  Felly byddwn ni'n mynd i wneud hynny ar gyfer 30 o ymgyrchau i ddwy brethyn  pan fydd ein ambulans a'r defib yn dod  ac rydyn ni'n dweud y bydd yr ambulans yn mynd i ddod ymlaen.  Rydyn ni'n edrych ar ddau ffordd o ymgyrchu ar y cwrs gweithio'r cyhoeddiad cyntaf.  Y cyntaf yw ymgyrchu tonic-clonic  ac y cyntaf yw ymgyrchu ffocal.  Felly ymgyrchu tonic-clonic yw efallai  y peth cyntaf o ymgyrchu sy'n dod i'w meddwl y gwelwch chi'n ei weld yn ffilmiau.  Felly dyma pan fydd rhywun yn mynd i'r fflwr  ac mae cymdeithasau musglau anhygoel.  Felly mae rhai cymdeithasau anhygoel ac mae'n gallu bod yn anhygoel i'w gweld.  Efallai y bydd rhywun yn cydweithio ar y chwrs  a hefyd efallai y byddant yn ymgyrchu eu hunain,  y gwleidiau yn mynd i'r ôl,  efallai y byddant yn stopio ychydig o amser  a hefyd efallai y bydd rhan o'r glan ar y myfyrwyr hefyd  lle efallai y byddent wedi pwysleisio eu tŷn.  Felly os ydych chi'n profi rhywun sy'n cael ymgyrchu  yr hyn rydych chi'n mynd i'w wneud fel ymgyrchu cyntaf  yw gwneud yn siŵr nad oes unrhyw ddangos ar ôl,  yn enwedig i'r casgliad hefyd,  o ran unrhyw beth y gallent gweithio eu tŷn i mewn  neu eu llwybrau i mewn  ac hefyd rydyn ni'n mynd i gynllunio eu tywyll  felly trwy gosod rhywbeth llawn o dannydd.  Ie, felly rydych chi wedi ymgyrchu am ddangos  ac yna o'r pwynt hwnnw,  os ydyn nhw'n dal i gael eu tŷn,  rydyn ni'n mynd i gynllunio'r ddangos.  Y rheswm rydyn ni'n gynllunio'r ddangos,  os yw'n mynd i mewn i fwy na 5 munud,  gallai hynny fod yn ddangos iawn ar gyfer y casgliad,  felly rhaid i ni wneud yn siŵr  bod ambulans ar ei ffordd.  Ie, felly rydyn ni'n gynllunio'r ddangos,  os ydyn nhw'n dal i gael eu tŷn  ac mae'r mwynebion nhw wedi dal i gael eu tŷn  ac mae'n ddiogel i ni wneud hynny,  felly rydyn ni'n mynd i ymdrech i'r casgliad  ac rydyn ni'n mynd i ymdrechu'n gyntaf.  Felly rydyn ni wedi ysgrifennu ar gyfer y ddangos,  rydyn ni'n mynd i ysgrifennu ar gyfer y rheswm  ac yna ysgrifennu ar gyfer y bryd.  Felly, mae epilepsi yn un o'r rheswm  pwysig y bydd rhywun yn cael seisiau,  mae llawer o eraill,  ac un o'r eraill yw ymgyrchu cardiaid,  felly dyna pam mae'n bwysig iawn  y byddwn ni'n ysgrifennu ar gyfer y bryd  Os ydyn nhw'n ysgrifennu,  yna mae'n rhaid i ni eu lleihau i sefydliad ymgyrchu  er mwyn sicrhau ein bod ni'n gallu cymryd ymdrech yn agos.  Ac mae'n rhaid i ni wneud yn siŵr  bod ambulans ar ei ffyrdd  os yw'n fwy na 5 munud  y byddant yn eu seisiau,  os nad ydyn nhw'n dod ymlaen  ac yna gael seisiau arall,  neu os ydyn ni'n gwybod ei fod yn eu seisiau cyntaf,  neu dydyn ni ddim yn siŵr,  efallai nad ydyn ni'n gwybod y bobl hwn  ac maen nhw wedi cael seisiau  yn gofyn ambulans.  Y ffordd arall rydw i wedi ei ddweud yn gyntaf  yw seisiau ffocal.  Felly dyma lle y bydd rhywun  yn ymwneud â gweld ymlaen,  felly seisiau anhygoel.  Efallai hefyd yn cynnwys  ysgrifennu,  ysgrifennu yn agos,  ysgrifennu,  a phobl sy'n mynd ymlaen,  efallai ysgrifennu ymlaen.  Felly gallai hyn hefyd fod yn ddangos iawn  ar gyfer casgliad,  yn enwedig os ydyn nhw mewn amgylchedd  neu unrhyw beth fel hyn.  Felly rhaid i ni geisio  gael nhw'n ysgrifennu os ydyn nhw'n gallu  mewn amgylchedd anhygoel.  Dydyn ni ddim yn ceisio gwneud nhw allan o hynny,  gwneud iddyn nhw gael eu seisiau.  Ac eto, teimlo,  os yw'n fwy nag 5 munud,  gofyn ambulans.  Os nad ydych chi'n gwybod  bod nhw wedi cael seisiau o'r blaen,  gofyn ambulans.  Ie, a bod yn ddiolchgar iawn  pan ydyn nhw'n gofyn  a'u gofyn lle ydyn nhw.  Ie.  Felly, mwy o ddim  pan ydyn nhw'n cael seisiau.  Dydyn ni ddim yn ceisio  gwneud iddyn nhw allan o hynny.  Felly, gwneud iddyn nhw allan o hynny  trwy ceisio eu hyfforddi  neu unrhyw beth fel hynny.  Pan ydyn nhw'n cael  seisiau tonic-clonic,  felly ydyn nhw ar y fflwr  yn cael eu  gweithgareddau musglau amgylcheddol,  dydyn ni ddim yn ceisio  ymddangos iddyn nhw mewn unrhyw ffordd  oherwydd gallai hynny  gael damau mwy  a hefyd i chi eich hun  hefyd, mae rhywun yn mynd i fod  yn y bwysig  pan ydyn nhw'n y stade honno.  Felly, gwnewch yn ôl  a chael y seisiau i ddigwydd.  Ie, felly, mae'n dod o fod  y dyn yma  yn cael seisiau.  Mae rhai gweithgareddau musglau  anhygoel a ddim yn cael eu gweithgareddau.  Efallai hefyd y gwelwch  eu bod nhw'n eu hwylo  efallai eu bod nhw'n eu gwneud  yn y myfyrwyr  neu efallai efallai  bod yna dŵr  sy'n anodd i'w gweld.  Gwnewch eich bod hi'n ddangos.  Os oes unrhyw beth  efallai sy'n gallu  rhannu'r casgliad  cynyddu hynny allan  er mwyn iddyn nhw ddim  nodi eu hwnnw  neu eu hynny  neu eu hwnnw  neu unrhyw rhan o'u bod.  Os oes gennych  cardigan,  jumper  neu pyllo  o unrhyw ffordd  gobeithiwch eich bod chi'n gwneud  yn ystod eu hwnnw  er mwyn eu gweithredu  o ddod i'r fflwr  os ydyn nhw'n ystod  nid ychwanegwch eich ddŵr y tu ôl  oherwydd gallwch  gael ffingrau bryd.  Byddant'n mynd i fod yn fawr iawn.  Gwneud yn siŵr eich bod chi'n  dod yn ôl'n iawn  wrth eu bod yn cael eu  sysio  ac amseru'r sysio.  Os yw'n unrhyw ddŵr  mwy na 5 munud  yna mae'n rhaid i ni  ddweud yr ambulans.  Os nad ydyn ni'n credu  eu bod wedi cael  sysio o'r blaen  yna mae'n rhaid i ni  ddweud yr ambulans  ac os ydyn nhw'n  cael eu sysio  mae'n rhaid i ni  ddweud yr ambulans.  Yn ystod eu bod wedi  ddweud eu bod wedi cael  eu sysio  mae'n bwysig  ysgrifennu i ysgrifennu  ychydig yn gyflym.  Felly  efallai ychydig o  sysioau  ychydig yn ysgrifennu  ychydig yn ysgrifennu  felly mae'n rhaid i ni  agor y fflwm  ac ysgrifennu i ysgrifennu.  Mae'r dyn yma yn ysgrifennu  felly dwi'n mynd i  gofyn am ambulans  oherwydd dwi ddim yn gwybod  os ydyn nhw wedi  os ydyn nhw wedi cael epilepsi  neu beth sy'n digwydd  gyda'r casgliad yma.  Felly dwi'n mynd i  gofyn am ambulans  a'i leihau  mewn sefydliad ymdrech.  Fy enw i yw Michelle  fi yw'r cyflwr cyntaf  dwi'n mynd i  rhoi chi mewn  sefydliad mwy ysgrifennol.  Felly  gweithiwch ysgrifennu iddyn nhw.  Mae'r ysgrifennu  yw'r diweddarach  i fynd ymlaen  i allu clywed chi.  Ac mae'n rhaid i chi  gofyn iddyn nhw  ac ysgrifennu'n ôl  ar eu hyfforddi  o'r sefydliad yma.  Iawn, felly  yn y cwrs gweithio  cyntaf ymdrech  rydyn ni'n mynd i edrych  ar ddau ffordd gwahanol  o ysgrifennu.  Felly mae gennym  ein ysgrifennu cyffredinol,  ein cyffredin cyffredinol  a'n ysgrifennu cyffredin cyflawn.  Felly os yw'n ysgrifennu cyffredinol  byddwch chi'n gweld  gwyrdd  a dim ond y ffordd gwahanol  o'r sgin sydd wedi'i effeithio.  Felly mae'n mynd i fod  yn agos  ac yn agos i ddefnyddio.  Yr hyn rydyn ni'n mynd i wneud  ar gyfer y cyffredinol  yw'i rhannu ar dŵr glan,  felly dŵr glan glan  am ychydig o 10 munud.  Efallai y mae'n rhaid i ni  rhoi'r ysgrifennu cyffredinol  i'r ysgrifennu  yn ymdrech  ar nifer o bethau.  Felly,  os yw'n o hyd  ar y cyffredinol  y byddai'n rhaid iddyn nhw  mynd i'r ysgrifennu,  ond hefyd  os yw'n o hyd  mwy na 5%  o'u llywodraeth.  Felly,  sut ydyn ni'n gwybod  os yw'n o hyd  mwy na 5%  o'u llywodraeth?  1%  byddai'r cyffredinol  yn ychydig o dŵr glan.  Felly,  os yw'n o hyd  mwy na 5%  o dŵr glan  y byddai'n rhaid iddyn nhw  mynd i'r ysgrifennu.  Ar gyfer y cyffredinol  cyffredinol,  efallai y byddwch chi'n gweld  rhywbeth sy'n glir  a rhywbeth sy'n rhannu'r dŵr glan.  Os ydych chi'n gweld hynny,  eto,  rhannwch hynny'n dŵr glan  am ychydig o 10 munud  ac yna edrychwch  ar ddefnyddio rhywfaint  o dŵr glan dyddiadur.  Felly, rhywbeth sy'n hyfforddiol.  Os ydych chi'n cael  rhyw dŵr glan cyffredinol  neu rhywbeth fel hynny,  yna mae hynny'n briliant.  Ychydig o dŵr glan  Ac yna,  dymuno hwnnw ar y sgriwn  a gwneud gyda'r sgriwn  ymhellach ar y dŵr.  Dydwch ddim yn ei wneud  hyd yn oed.  Dydwch ddim yn ei gyfro  o gwmpas y sgriwn.  Am ychydig o rhywfaint o glan,  os yw mwy na 1%  o'r bobl credwyr,  felly dim ond un o'r palm  o'u rhan  yna byddai'n angen  mynd at y ysgol.  Neu, os ydych chi'n beryglu  am unrhyw gysylltiedd  nid ydyn nhw'n siŵr, gwnewch iddyn nhw fynd i'r ysgol i wneud y pwyswyl, gwnewch iddyn nhw'n iawn.  Ar gyfer ffyrdd fwy, bydd hwn yn bwysig iawn.  Byddai'n edrych yn dda iawn, byddai ychydig o adnoddau waxig  ac efallai hefyd ychydig o'r nerf, felly efallai nad ydyn nhw'n cael teimlad o unrhyw fath o achosion.  Efallai y mae'n rhaid i ni wneud ymwneud â'r sioc,  ac efallai y mae'n rhaid i chi gyrraedd rai cefnogaethau bywydol,  felly cyfnod CPR os oeddent yn deall eu bod yn ddeall eu bywydau, neu'n mynd i'r sioc.  Felly, ar gyfer ychydig o ffyrdd fwy,  efallai, gwnewch ei gyrraedd ar dŵr i'r amser cymaint o 10 munud,  a hefyd argeisio rhagor,  a'u cyflwyno i'r ambulans yn gyflym fel y gall.  Iawn, felly, mewn yr egwyl hwn, mae gennym ychydig o fyrdd ar gyfer ychydig o ffyrdd.  Felly, fel y gallwch ei weld, mae'r rhagor yma, mae'n ddiddor iawn iddo ei wneud,  ac mae'n ddiddor iawn i'w gysylltu.  Felly, yr hyn rydyn ni'n mynd i'w wneud yn gyflym fel y gall,  yw rhoi iddo ei gyrraedd ar dŵr i'r ambulans.  Mae'n bwysig nad yw'n ddiddor iawn, ac nid yw'n ddiddor iawn.  Dydyn ni ddim eisiau cael hypothermia.  Os nad ydyn ni'n gallu rhoi iddo ei gyrraedd ar dŵr,  gallwn ddod â'r dŵr iddo ei gyrraedd.  Iawn.  Dw i'n mynd i ddod â'r dŵr ar eich cymaint nawr.  Yr hyn rydyn ni'n ei wneud yw gwneud hyn ar gyfer 10 munud.  Felly, os ydych chi'n rhaid i chi ddod â'r dŵr iddo ei gyrraedd,  byddwch chi angen rhywun i ddod â'ch cymaint o dŵr.  Gwneud yn siŵr bod eich casgliadau yn teimlo'n iawn,  ac os ydyn nhw'n ei gyrraedd, gadewch iddyn nhw i'w gyrraedd.  Ar ôl 10 munud,  byddwn ni'n edrych ar y gysylltiad.  Os oes unrhyw blister yn ymddangos neu unrhyw beth fel hynny,  byddwn ni'n rhaid iddyn nhw mynd i'r ysgol.  Os ydyn ni'n rhaid i unrhyw ddefnyddiad, gallwn ni ei gyflawni gyda ddresin steril.  Rhywbeth fel dŵr cyffredin yw ddiddorol.  Ychwanegwch y rôl cyntaf,  ac yna defnyddwch y llwybrau ar ôl hynny i fod yn steril.  Gadewch i ni leihau dŵr cyffredin ar y dŵr,  ac ychwanegwch ychydig ar y dŵr.  Nid yw'n ei wneud mewn ffwrdd.  Ond gallwn ni'n edrych ar y gysylltiad,  ac ychwanegwch y dŵr ar ôl hynny i weld beth sy'n digwydd gyda hynny.  Os yw'n ben ychydig ar y dŵr cyffredin fel hyn,  ac nid yw'n rhaid iddyn nhw fynd i'r ysgol,  ond fel rwy'n dweud, os oes unrhyw broblemau o ddefnyddio,  yna byddwn yn ei wneud.  Felly rwy'n edrych ar rai mwyaf o ddysgwyr fwyaf nawr.  Os yw rhywun yn cael dŵr cyffredin yn ei dŵr,  neu os ydyn nhw'n mynd i ddewis rhywbeth sy'n gallu bod yn hawrus.  Felly rwy'n mynd i ddweud i chi beth i'w wneud yno.  Felly os yw rhywun yn cael rhywbeth sy'n cael ei ddewis yn ei dŵr neu'i nos,  ac mae'n cael ei ddewis yn y dŵr,  nid yw'n rhaid iddyn nhw ymwneud â phwyso'r dŵr,  neu gwneud iddyn nhw ffwrddio'r dŵr,  trwy ffwrddio o'u nostrilau.  Rhaid iddyn nhw ddewis ei ddewis yn y dŵr,  a hyrwyddo iddyn nhw i fynd i'r GP,  neu i'r A&E i'w gadael,  oherwydd gallwn wneud rhywfaint o dŵr iawn i'r dŵr a'r nostrilau.  Os yw rhywun wedi mynd i ddewis rhywbeth sy'n golygu ei fod yn anodd,  felly efallai un o'r dŵr neu rhywbeth fel hyn,  os oes un o'r bobl ifanc,  neu os oes rhywbeth yn y dŵr rydyn nhw ddim yn gwybod  ac maen nhw wedi mynd i ddewis rhywbeth fel hyn.  Yn ymwneud â'r hyn sydd,  bydd yn ymwneud â'u bod yn anodd i fynd i'r hospital.  Os yw rhywbeth fel dŵr sydd yn y dŵr sy'n anodd,  neu un o'r dŵr sydd yn y dŵr sy'n anodd,  neu mewn gwirionedd fy hun,  os oes glas yn fy mÙn,  mae'r glas yn gallu gwneud llawer o dynion i chi i mewn hefyd,  felly byddwn ni'n ymwneud â eu bod nhw'n mynd i'r hospital.  Neu efallai ddweud y cyfarfodydd arall,  felly gallwch ddweud 111  a gwneud iddyn nhw ddweud a ydyn nhw'n ymwneud â eu bod yn mynd i'r hospital  fel arall i allu gwneud gwasanaethau.  Os ydych chi'n cael ymddiried â rhywun sydd â glas fawr,  mae'n bwysig bod ni'n hallu'r glas yn ystod y cyfnod o'r amser.  Felly byddwn ni'n gofyn i'r cyfarfodydd  adeiladu prysur ddiwethaf drwy'r glas.  Felly os ydych chi'n gallu gwneud hynny i mi  a diwethaf prysur ddiwethaf drwy'r glas,  rhoi'r glas yn dda ac yn ffyrddus.  Yr hyn y byddwn i'n ei wneud yw gofyn i'r cyfarfodydd  Mae gross bros y flynyddyn,rovell methodem.  Dyw hyn ddim yn iawn i mi er mwyn Rosy'n gwybod.  Ac yna gyda mwy i ddim, a daeth y printer eu mynyddo.  Iawn i mi, ddangos iddi ffigur hwn,  rwan ffoc,  rwan ffoc,  ffoc,  dmo'rrehau,  Felly, os ydych chi'n mynd i ddechrau eich dŵr i mi, gadewch i mi ddweud a yw hyn yn teimlo'n  teimlo'n dda iawn.  Felly rydych chi eisiau i'r bandage fod yn dda iawn ac yn teimlo'n dda iawn, ond dydych chi ddim  eisiau ei gadael o'r cyffredin, felly edrychwch yn ôl â'ch casgliad.  Iawn, felly gwneud yn siŵr bod yr holl bandage'n cyflwyno'n gyflym, felly gallwn wneud yn siŵr  bod cymaint o wanan cymryd yn gallu leiaf.  Iawn, felly os gwnaethoch chi neud pryswythi unwaith i ef wrth ddarganfod.  Rydw i'n mynd i'r hyn.  Feelly byddai y雷 hwn yn gwneud heibio amad torri am fferth siok.  Mae'n ymwneud â teimlad o ddiddordeb, mae'n dŵr i'r dechrau, mae ganddyn nhw hartref cyflym a llwyddiant, ac mae'n teimlo'n ddiddordeb.  Felly beth rydw i'n mynd i'w wneud yw ei leihau i mewn fel yw e, ac ychydig i'r llwybrau.  Gallwch chi helpu i ychydig i'r llwybrau, mae'n dda.  Ydy hynny'n hyfryd?  Rhowch yn siŵr eich bod chi wedi'i ddweud 999 yn gyflym iawn.  Dechreuwch i siarad â'ch ddiddordeb a chael eich bod yn barod i ddechrau cefnogaeth bywyd.  Os yw'r llwybrau yn dod trwy'r ddiddordeb hwn, byddwn ni'n ei wneud oherwydd ddod trwy'r ddiddordeb arall.  Os oedd yn dod trwy'r ddiddordeb arall, byddwn ni'n ei alluogi a dechrau'r broses eto.  Rhowch eich bod chi'n dda i'r llwybrau.  Nid y gallwn ni roi i'r ddiddordeb unrhyw beth i'w ddynnu, gwylio neu ffwrddio.  Rhowch yn dda i'r ddiddordeb.  Gadewch i'r ddiddordeb ei ddod trwy'r ddiddordeb.  A byddwch yn barod i ddechrau cefnogaeth bywyd os yw'n angen.  Rydw i'n mynd i siarad am ddau ffordd o ddiweddarau llwybrau.  Y cyntaf yw angina, lle mae'r dyniad i'r holl ddiddordeb wedi'i gysylltu.  Yn aml, byddai rhywun wedi cael ei ddiagnos gyda hyn, felly efallai eu bod yn gallu cymryd ymddygiad.  Yn aml, mae'n cael ei ddarparu trwy gweithgaredd ffysig.  Yn aml, pan fyddant wedi ysbryd, byddwch chi'n gweld cynyddu cyflym, neu pan fyddant wedi cymryd ymddygiad, byddwch chi'n gweld eu cynyddu'n gyflym.  Os ydych chi'n ddiddordeb ac nid yw'r ymddygiad yn gweithio, yna ddweud 999.  Yr amgylchedd ychydig yw hartref, felly dyma pan mae'r ddiddordeb wedi'i gwblhau'n gyflym, felly mae rhan o'r hartref wedi'i gwblhau'n gyflym.  Felly gallai hyn fod yn anodd, ac mae'n bwysig ein bod ni'n ei wneud gyda hynny'n gyflym.  Yr amgylcheddau a'r syniadau y byddwch chi'n eu gweld ar hyn o bryd yw bod rhywun yn ymddygiad o ddiddordeb cyffredin neu gysylltiedig o gwmpas y cyffredin.  Efallai y dywedodd eu bod eu llawn yn dynnu, yn amlwg mae'r llawn ddiweddar yn gyntaf, ond gallai hefyd fod y llawn ddiweddar.  Efallai hefyd y dywedodd eu bod yn ymddygiad o ddiddordeb yn yr ystafell, y chwrdd a'r ddiddordeb.  Efallai hefyd y dywedodd eu bod yn ymddygiad o ddiddordeb neu mewn gwirionedd yn iach, yn teimlo'n ddiddordeb.  Efallai y dywedodd eu bod yn ddiddordeb a'n dechrau edrych yn ddiddordeb.  Nid yw ddwy ymddygiad o ddiddordeb yn yr un peth, ac efallai eu bod yn edrych yn wahanol ar gyfer pob unigol, ac efallai nad ydyn nhw'n ymddygiad o'r holl hynny.  Felly dywedwch am yr holl fathau gwahanol o ddiddordeb a syniadau, ac os yw'n ddiddordeb, ysgrifennwch amgylchedd yn gyflym.  Rydyn ni'n sylweddoli bod y dywedodd yma yn cael ymddygiad o'r holl hynny, felly rhaid i ni gofyn i unrhywun ysgrifennu amgylchedd yn gyflym,  a gofyn iddyn nhw'n ymddygiadol i gael AED, felly rydyn ni'n cael un ymddygiad o'r holl hyn, er mwyn i'r person hwn ddweud.  Felly mae'r amgylchedd yn ei ffordd, rydyn ni'n ceisio eu gallu eu gwneud yn ymddygiadol, ac rydw i'n mynd i weld a oes ganddyn nhw unrhyw ysgrifennu allweddol,  felly 150-300mg o ysgrifennu allweddol, ac mae hynny'n gallu helpu i ddiddordeb y llwydd, a chyflawni'r broses.  Rydw i'n mynd i'w leihau mewn yr ysgrifennu yw'r W, felly os ydych chi'n gallu fynd i fyny eich hysgrifennu, gosodwch nhw'n gilydd,  a byddwn i'n cefnogi chi o'r ôl, gallwch chi edrych yn ôl ychydig.  Yw hynny'n hyfforddiol? Ie.  Felly rydw i'n mynd i'w gallu ei wneud yn ddiogel, os oes unrhyw ddangos cyffredin ar ôl y llwydd neu'r ysgrifennu, rydw i'n mynd i'w allu.  Rydw i'n mynd i'w gallu ei wneud yn hyfforddi ac yn cefnogi nhw pan fydd yr ysgrifennu'n arwain.  Y tredd yw'r ysgrifennu cardiac.  Felly mae hyn yn wahanol i ddiddordeb llwydd.  Mae'r ysgrifennu cardiac pan fydd yr ysgrifennu'n arwain.  Felly, nid oes llwydd yng nghanol y bod.  Felly, os yw hynny'n digwydd, byddwch chi'n gweld nhw'n cael eu lladio i'r fflwr, efallai'n mynd yn dda iawn i ddechrau gyda nhw cyn cael eu lladio a byddant yn dechrau ysgrifennu.  Felly, wrth gwrs, mae angen i ni ddweud â'r ysgrifennu i ddod i'r AED a dechrau CPR yn gyflym.  Mae'r fath ynto'n cyflym i'r agor ymhellach nad mod i'n ymwybod â rhoi ffwrdd iawn.  Felly, rydw i'n mynd i'w ddeall trefnuoedd a gwella cyn cael rhwydwaith ac arian galluog na golygu hynny'n cyflymod.  Yn tes consol.  Rydw i'n mynd i'r Ddangosit.  1. Camysghwn casgliad aro aquilo.  yw'r test cyntaf yw'r ffach. Felly, mae eich fach yn edrych yn drwp, neu'n drwp ar un o bwrdd?  I ddysgu hynny, gallwn ei gofyn a ydynt yn gallu ysmail a gweld a yw cyd-bwrddau'n gallu  fynd i'r afan. A yw'r brif, felly gofyn iddyn nhw fynd i'r brif a phosib yw un ohonyn nhw'n  cael eu strog. Yr hnes hwn yw S, felly yw'r sgwrs. Felly, yw'r sgwrs nhw'n normal, yw'n  dweud pethau sy'n ddim yn gwneud syniad, neu efallai nad ydyn nhw'n gallu siarad gyda'i gilydd.  Os ydych chi'n gweld unrhyw hynny, yna mae'n amser i T ddweud 999 yn gyflym fel sy'n bosibl.  Felly, rwy'n mynd i ddangos i chi sut i wneud dwy ffordd o slingiau gwahanol nawr. Y cyntaf rwy'n mynd i  ddangos i chi yw sling cymorth. Felly, yr hyn y gallwch chi ddefnyddio sling cymorth  yw gysylltiad â'r llawer ysgafn, felly efallai ffractio, efallai gysylltiad â'r  sgwrs neu'r llawer ysgafn, yn dybynnu ar yr hyn sy'n ymddygiadol iawn ar gyfer y casgliad,  felly gallant eich ysgrifennu gyda hynny. Iawn? Felly, rwy'n mynd i ddangos i chi eich ysgafn fel hyn.  Agorwch eich sling.  Mae'r ddwy sling yn mynd i ddechrau yn yr un ffordd o ran y dyfodol o'r llawer. Felly, mae gennych  rhan fawr o'r trianglau, ac yna mae gennych y pwynt sy'n mynd i'r gysylltiad â'r llawer  ysgafn. Iawn? Felly, i'r sling cymorth, rydyn ni'n mynd i ddechrau o le i'r llawer, felly mae'r  llawer ar y chest. Ac yna, rydyn ni'n mynd i ddefnyddio'r pwynt hwn i ddod o'r  sefydlu... ac yna dwi'n mynd i'w dddwyo ung ar gwrs canfodol.  dywedais defnyddio'r jôl mai oedd hwn, i mi o bryn, felly dywedais i mi, dwi'n gobeithio ein bod chi'n  gyda gêm ac newydd ac basically, i gyd i chi ddewis.  Dywedais i mi, mae'n mynd i'r gysylltiad â'r griio a hyd yn oed, pwyshech chi'r tri gu enw ac  well supported yep?  yep.  Ok, great.  So that is your support sling.  Ok the second sling is the elevation sling,  so if we just pop your arm up here.  Ok so this might be for a bleed, a sprain or again maybe an injury to the shoulder  or collar bone.  It depends on how comfortable the casualty is and they usually will come to you in a  position that is comfortable for them.  Felly, y sling, eto, y rhan fawr o'r ddarn da i'r ddarn da  a'r pwynt i'r gweithredd ar y ddarn ddau.  Rydw i'n ei leihau'n ddiweddaru dros y top yma.  Rydw i'n mynd i ddangos y rhan hwnnw i'ch ffinger  a'i gefnogi i mi,  er mwyn iddo ddangos.  Rydw i'n mynd i gael y pwynt ar y ddarn  a'i swipio ar y ddarn  ac rydw i'n mynd i ddangos y ddarn o'r casuality.  Rydw i'n mynd i'w ddangos ychydig yn fawr  ac weekend llwyr yn amlenni,  Licio'r gorff orau sydd ar y target  sydd ar y bach hon oherwydd ar yr gin.  A dwi'n mynd, eto, rhoi bobl tŷ  neu gallwch ddefnyddio swifter,  hyd yn heb un,  rhai o'n sylwiadau.  Gallwch dŷ hymny wastudio poki a'r cefn gaff.  Mae'n sefeldib?  Iawn, deall.  A dyna'n di, dyna'ch ddau sliniau.  i ymgyrchu, i ymgyrchu, i ymgyrchu a i ymgyrchu.  Os ydych chi'n meddwl bod y fraction, os yw'n fraction glan, felly nid yw'r gynllun wedi'i  ymgyrchu drwy'r dŵr, yna byddwch chi'n cymryd ymgyrchu a'r cefnogaeth yn y  sefydliad sydd wedi'i ddod, er mwyn eu gwneud nhw'n ymddygiadol, ac yn ymgyrchu  999.  Os yw'n fraction agored, gwneud ymgyrchu gyda'r blaen, onid yw'n cymryd ymgyrchu  fel y byddwch chi'n ei wneud, ac eto, dim ond cymryd ymgyrchu a'r cefnogaeth a'r  cefnogaeth 999.  Diolch am wylio, gobeithio y byddwch chi wedi mwynhau hynny ac y byddwch chi wedi dysgu  y sgiliau ymgyrchu cyntaf.  Os ydych chi'n hoffi bod yn cymryd ymgyrchu cyntaf, os gwelwch yn dda ar ein gwefan. 