 I've hired a lot of accountants in my time, and if you're going to become a profitable  business owner, you too are going to have to hire an accountant.  So who do you hire?  You've got bookkeepers and controllers and accountants and CFOs and CPAs.  I mean, the list is endless.  And so today we're going to talk about which kind of accountant you should have for what  circumstance you're in.  Hey, everyone.  Eddie Hood here.  I am the CEO of Ignite Spot Outsourced Accounting.  And today we are helping you with step number one of becoming profitable in your business.  You're going to need an accountant.  Now you don't have to hire us.  You can hire in house.  So we're going to talk about that.  If you hire in house, who should you get?  Because there's a lot of options and there's a lot of different budgets out there that  you need to be aware of so that you don't get the wrong person for the wrong job description.  Okay.  The first person you're going to hire is your bookkeeper.  Now this is the data entry specialist.  Depending on where you live, you're going to pay a different amount for this person.  So if you live in Idaho, for example, you might be on the lower end, around $18,000  to $20,000 a year.  But if you're in New York or California, you could be upwards of $40,000 or even $45,000  a year.  So know that this person serves a specific role.  They're not going to be strong in creating reports for you or doing business analytics  or accounting processes.  Their job is to get data into the system.  And if you're a new entrepreneur, this is likely you.  You've been doing this yourself.  So this is a good option to offload some of the heavy kind of, you know, grunt work of  accounting and allow you to begin analyzing some of the reports.  A good hire for anybody that is ready to expand their business, but not really ready to invest  in the high top tier accountants just yet.  The next level up, guys, is the accountant.  Now a lot of people think bookkeepers and accountants are the same thing.  They're not.  It's very, very different.  And you're going to pay a different amount for somebody that's an accountant.  So here's how it works.  Your bookkeeper has been putting data into the system all month long.  Your accountant typically is helping to oversee that process.  And then at the end of the month, they're doing some of the more heavy lifting tasks  which require, you know, reconciling your trial balance, making month end journal entries,  doing some of the accrual work that's going to need to happen in your financials if they're  going to be right.  And in some cases, they help create the financial statements, but not always.  But they are at that month end position.  Now for an accountant, depending again on where you live, you can expect to pay anywhere  from maybe $30,000 up to $60,000.  That's probably a fair range for somebody in this role.  Next level up is the controller.  Now I loved doing controller work as I grew up in my career.  It's this process of overseeing the whole accounting system.  You get to orchestrate what's happening and when.  You're making sure that data is getting into the system on time, that the month end journal  entries are happening on time.  And you're really responsible for the final product that's coming out of the accounting  system.  The balance sheet, the income statement, the cash flow statement, those kind of documents  rest on the shoulders of your controller.  Now this is a more expensive accountant and it should be because this person needs to  have a good amount of experience, should have completed several, absolutely at least a bachelor's  degree in accounting, if not getting into their master's degree and having completed  that.  Expect to pay anywhere from the very, very low end, $50,000, $45,000 up to maybe $75,000  for this person.  I've seen it at $85,000 actually for certain areas of the country.  All right guys, now we're going to talk about the king or queen on top of the mountain.  This is your CFO.  CFO stands for Chief Financial Officer.  They in fact hold a C-suite position in your company.  This person's expensive.  You want to be careful when you hire a CFO because not all CFOs are created equal.  Everything up to this point has been really task related, focusing on just journal entries  and debiting and crediting.  But when you step into a CFO role, this requires strategic thinking and not all accountants  have that capability.  They're not able to see the big picture and create plans that are business development  related.  But that's what a CFO should be doing.  They should be taking all that work the rest of the team is doing and translating that  into your goals as the entrepreneur to make sure that we're hitting the targets we need  to hit with the right amount of money behind each goal.  So a CFO you can expect to pay anywhere from $75,000 to $250,000 is typically what I've  seen nationwide for somebody of this caliber.  All right guys, last but not least is the CPA.  The CPA stands for Certified Public Accountant.  This is the person that almost all of you probably have in your life right now if you've  started your company.  You know that you need a tax guy, that's the CPA.  His job is to do two things really.  One is to prepare your tax strategy, to take everything you're doing throughout the year  and prepare it so that you are not spending more than you need to and giving it away to  Uncle Sam.  That's the goal.  But number two, a CPA often fills the role of an auditor where they come in as an independent  party and they make sure that your books are accurate and clean and actually reflective  of what's happening in the real world, that nobody's cooking the books.  So if your CPA ever fills the role of your auditor, they're not allowed to fill any of  the other accounting roles.  That would be breaking the laws of accounting really.  So be aware of that.  Now, what I do see happening a lot of the time in businesses as I consult and engage  with them is they're actually using their CPA for lower level functions.  They're using their CPA, yes, to prepare their taxes, but also to do their bookkeeping and  their accounting work and their controller work.  And CPAs sometimes will take that work because number one, it's really easy for them to do,  but it's also they're making a ton of money per hour doing your data entry.  That's a bad decision for you.  Don't do that.  You need to make sure you have a bookkeeper doing the bookkeeping work, CPA doing the  CPA work.  In terms of cost, you're going to spend anywhere between $125 an hour to upwards of $450 an  hour if you're getting into really crazy stuff like weird derivative stuff or like oil and  gas sometimes those guys get really expensive.  So just be aware of the industry you're in and the complication of what you do is going  to affect the rate that you're paying your CPA, but a good CPA is usually worth the investment  because they save you an insane amount of money down the road.  Last thought here, guys, not all CPAs are created equal.  I have seen some really bad CPAs out there, so do your due diligence.  Don't just take word that because they're a CPA that they're going to be great at what  they do.  You know, not all doctors are good at what they do.  I just lost the light.  If you're watching this show, our set just shut down because the batteries died.  So now we're sitting in the dark.  Deal with it, guys.  This is part of recording a live show, right?  I've got the Ben's back here making faces at me like, the light's dead, the light's  dead.  We're just going to keep rolling with this because we're on a roll.  Okay.  Not all CPAs are created equal.  Some of them are really bad, so be careful of that.  Now those are the main roles, bookkeeper, accountant, controller, CFO, CPA.  There are some other distinctions in there, but just be aware of that.  I want to thank you for watching this video.  If you've liked it, go ahead and click subscribe so that you get access to all the future videos  on the road.  Our goal is to make you more profitable in your business each and every week.  Until next time, guys, stay profitable and have fun building your empire. 