 Good afternoon, everybody!  How are you guys doing?  Ow!  Good.  I'm glad that it's good, you know?  Everything was fine, then class started, right?  You'll think back on the term very...  Good afternoon, everybody!  How are you guys doing?  Ow!  Good.  I'm glad that it's good, you know?  Everything was fine, then class started, right?  You'll think back on the term very fondly in those terms.  Until I hit her and opened his mouth, everything was good, right?  You're supposed to laugh at that.  I like you.  Did you have a good break?  Quiet group.  Anybody have anything exciting?  Say what?  Six flags.  I won't say what I thought you said.  But I can tell you gave a very vivid image, let me tell you.  Six flags.  Nobody can top six flags?  Stagecoach ride.  A stagecoach ride.  Where at?  Columbia.  It's a mining town in California.  Oh, cool!  It was their birthday.  Apparently they've been around for over a hundred years.  Sutter's Mill?  I think it's a bit more south of there.  Yeah.  You guys want me to just start talking?  Come on, if you don't talk,  then I'll just dive into biochemistry.  Let's do this.  The sooner we get started, the sooner we get it over with?  Is that the thinking?  Yeah.  Take a deep breath, get it over with.  I will do that in a minute,  but I'd like to get to know you a little bit before I get started.  Let me tell you a little bit about myself,  and I'll tell you a little bit about the TAs,  and then I'd like to learn a little bit about you.  My name is Kevin Ahern,  and I will be your instructor this term.  This is one of my funder classes to teach,  and I like having fun when I teach.  This is also a more challenging class to teach,  and the reason is because, as you're going to discover,  we're going to go through a lot of material in this term.  You probably have heard that about the class before.  It's true.  We cover a lot of territory.  The good news is that we don't go into it in as much depth  as we do in my other classes,  but because of that, it means we scan through a lot of material.  So we're going to cover all of biochemistry in one term.  So I'm not exaggerating when I tell you  that my heart goes out to you doing all of biochemistry in one term.  That's a lot of stuff.  It's also kind of a tough term  because the class meets on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, and Friday.  And Friday, let's be honest,  nobody wants to come to class on Friday, you know?  You think about Friday, and you think it's spring,  and it's 70 degrees out there,  and who wants to go listen to Ahern talk,  especially when he's got that video camera sitting back over there  because he videotapes all of his lectures,  and, you know, I can just watch the video later,  and I really don't need to go to class.  And I have that video camera there for a very good purpose,  and that purpose is to help you to learn the material,  and there's times you can't make it to class.  That's why it's there.  I've got a couple of students that contacted me earlier  and said they were having trouble getting back from spring break  in probably some more glamorous place than Six Flags.  I don't know where they were at,  but they were having trouble getting back,  and it doesn't get more glamorous than that.  Is that what you're saying?  Yeah, well, maybe they were coming back from Six Legs.  I don't know.  But it's there for those sorts of situations.  I want that camera to be helpful to you and beneficial to you,  and the deal I make with the students in the class  is that the camera will be there as long as you're here.  So when you stop showing up for class,  then the camera's going to go away  because what the camera's doing then  is it's really stopping you from being able to do  the things that you need to do.  Now, I don't do that to be mean,  and I don't do that because my ego says  that I have to have a full class,  because I really don't believe that.  But I do know from experience that students who are in class  are those who do better.  And you'll see, and I do this data every year.  I'll do it again this year.  But I give what I call extra credits  on days when the class size is small.  So if it's a nice day outside,  and you're seeing it's really beautiful outside,  and I don't want to go listen to Ahern,  then that's probably a pretty good chance  you're going to see a pop quiz that day,  not pop quiz, I shouldn't say a quiz  because it's actually extra credit.  I'm going to see extra credit on that day  because I'm actually surveying  what's happening with your grades.  And I'll tell you what I've found over the years  in doing that little survey.  You do get extra credit.  So if you come to class and you take that,  it's going to boost you compared to if you don't.  That's one thing.  And the other is when I look at who's coming to class,  because that's the only time I take attendance is then,  and who's not coming to class,  it's remarkable the difference in the grades.  It's remarkable the difference in the grades.  Two-thirds of the people who are in class  are above the average on the days when I give that.  And two-thirds of the people who are gone  are below the average.  Now, coincidence?  I would say, well, maybe,  but the reality is that I've done it for many years  and it's the same year in and year out.  It's going to pay you to come to class.  So come to class, keep the camera rolling,  keep Kevin happy, and we'll all be happy.  So I love teaching.  I love teaching this class,  and I have gotten to know many wonderful students  over the years with this class,  and I'm sure this term will be the same.  I like to interact with you.  I really enjoy interacting with you.  I really enjoy getting to know you,  and I enjoy helping you.  And my job is to do that.  If you don't come in, I can't help you.  And I guess that's that.  If you don't come in, I can't help you.  So if you come in, you're having difficulty,  I can help you, and I'm happy to do that.  I've also got two excellent TAs this year  who will also be available to meet with you,  especially if you think I'm too big and hairy,  which of course I'm not.  That's supposed to laugh at that.  They didn't laugh at that or nothing.  These guys haven't heard it at all.  These guys have heard it many times.  Anyway, let me introduce them to you first.  You'll have some interaction with them.  On the end is Maria Nguyen.  Maria is a senior in biochemistry and biophysics.  It's the first time she has been my TA.  And sitting next to her is Margot Romilly,  who is also a senior in biochemistry and biophysics,  and it's the first time she has been my TA.  They have heard all my jokes,  but they haven't had the joyful experience  of having me as the instructor.  Right.  Okay.  So that's a little bit about me.  That's a little bit about the course.  My philosophy is I really want to help you to learn.  Now let's get to know you a little bit,  and I will do that with sort of a simple survey first.  How many people in here are majoring in nutrition dietetics?  Oh yeah.  That's not uncommon.  Okay.  Those were all the F's.  Okay.  That's a joke.  That's a joke.  Got off on the wrong foot here, guys.  We don't want to do this on the first day.  This is really bad.  Set the tone for the whole term.  How many people in here are in botany plant pathology?  One.  Okay.  Two years ago when I taught this class,  there was this group of botany plant pathology,  and they all sat in the same place,  and I called them the botany mafia.  And after I called them that,  I had the feeling they really were  because they started showing up in strange places.  I was worried I was being followed or something.  I didn't know.  So I hope you're not part of the botany mafia.  How many people in some aspect of engineering?  Okay.  All right.  What?  What?  Chem?  Okay.  I don't know what it is.  BioE, of course, takes BB 450,  but I do see some chemes in there.  How many people in here are pre-health of some sort?  Okay.  All right.  So pre-pharmacy?  No.  Pre-dentistry?  Pre-medical?  This probably isn't the best for pre-medical, I'll tell you.  And pre-PT?  Pre-PA?  Okay.  And some other pre, I haven't, pre-optometry?  Did I miss a pre?  Pre-vet?  Pre-vet, oh yeah, pre-vet.  Sorry, that's usually a pretty decent number.  One?  Other pre-vets?  One.  One, okay, well.  You're all by yourself back there.  Okay.  So how many people are afraid getting started?  Be honest, I won't bite you.  Okay.  How many people have heard horror stories about biochemistry?  Oh, yeah, yeah.  Urban legend is out there, right?  So I won't ask how many have heard horror stories about me,  I don't want to know.  That's a joke too, but.  Anyway, one of the things that I think is important when you're  learning is that I'm a very big believer in the power of  positive thinking.  I think that the more you convince yourself something is  going to be awful, the more likely it is to be awful.  Not because it actually is, but because you've got your mindset  on that.  Okay?  It's one of the reasons I find that personal meetings with  students really do make a difference, because I think they  cut through that awfulness component that students frequently  feel or hear about from various things.  I'm an advisor in biochemistry and biophysics, and so in my  major, you say, oh wow, students are really taking really tough  classes and so forth.  Well, they have the same fears, they have the same thoughts  but they just have them for different classes.  And so we have a class that students in our major take called  physical chemistry.  Okay?  And so the legends are out there about physical chemistry,  you're going to die doing physical chemistry, it's going to be  awful doing physical chemistry, et cetera, et cetera.  Physical chemistry is a tough class, no question about it.  But a pretty decent percentage of the difficulties people have  with the class are actually the anxiety they have with the class.  And it has very little to do with the class itself.  So I tell my students that you've got to cut through that.  Okay?  Because the more you're worried about something, the less efficient  you are as a learner.  Okay?  You've got to get through that.  So once you cut through that, then I think you have the ability  to get on top of things.  And I won't tell you that there are perfect instructors on the campus,  whether they're in physical chemistry or they're in this class,  because there aren't any.  Okay?  But the best that you can do for yourself is to keep an open mind  and to go forward.  All right?  And if you think positive and you look at things in a positive fashion,  you're much more likely to be successful than if you look at it with anxiety.  Now that I've totally scared you, should I start?  Okay.  So today is going to be fairly casual.  You're seeing I'm sitting up here talking like this.  And I'm going to talk about some very general things about biochemistry.  There's not going to be much of what I will talk about today  that you're really going to be responsible for.  This is one of my rules of thumb for preparation in the class.  And one of the rules of thumb is that what I talk about in the class  is the most important thing.  My guideline in general, with sort of an exception today,  but my guideline in general is if I talk about it in class, it's fair game.  All right?  You say, oh, wow.  He can do a lot of talking.  All right?  Well, A, I'm not going to go pick nitpicky things to ask you about,  because that doesn't really prove anything.  I try to keep things as general as I can in the questions that I ask.  There will be some specifics, to be sure.  But I try to keep things as general as I can  to try to hit the major points that I talk about.  That's very important.  Second, I can assure you, and there's a book for the course.  It's a free book for the course.  How many people have gotten the book for the course?  Okay?  Get it.  It's a free book.  It's a free download.  It doesn't cost you a dime.  I can assure you there will be nothing that,  if I don't talk about it, that I will ask you about.  That is, if I don't talk about it,  I'm not going to ask you a question about it.  So the book is there to supplement your knowledge.  Okay?  So I want you to use that book to help enhance your knowledge,  to help learn about things that maybe you're curious about,  and to maybe see things explained in a different way  than I explained in class, since I wrote the book.  It's probably not going to sound much different,  but hopefully that will be of benefit to you.  Okay?  And last, I also, at the end of every class,  is I write highlights.  And those highlights are my sort of recollection of the,  and by the way, my memory is terrible,  my recollection of what I saw  as the most important things I talked about.  Okay?  So you can use those as a guide for studying.  I'm a big fan, a very big fan, of writing things down.  Okay?  As a tool for studying, writing things down  is one of the best things that you can do.  I find highlighting really doesn't teach anybody anything.  Okay?  So highlighting and color coding,  while they look really nice,  they aren't necessarily the best ways to study.  Study involves writing things down.  So if you do that, I think you'll do yourself a great favor.  Okay, with respect to the videos,  I try to get them posted within 24 hours of having recorded them.  It does take a fair amount of rendering,  and it does take a fair amount of time.  That's one of the reasons I want to see  that they're being used properly,  and that you guys keep coming to class and so forth,  and we'll be fine on the videos.  Stop coming to class, you'll lose extra credit,  and the videos may stop too.  Okay? Is that a deal?  All right, let's get started.  So what you see on the screen is the class page,  and the page has the syllabus on it.  The syllabus is required reading.  One question on the first exam  will come straight from the syllabus.  So you need to read the syllabus.  It's a requirement that you read the syllabus in the class.  The syllabus can be downloaded on here.  You can download it right here where it says here.  If you haven't downloaded the book,  you can download the book right here.  That's a long download.  Depending on how fast your connection is,  it can take a half an hour, so give it time.  And as I said in the email I sent to you this weekend,  the Chrome browser is the one browser  that seems to have some issues with it.  So if you're using Chrome,  you might want to try a different browser.  I will lecture directly from the stuff  that you see on the screen.  I don't use PowerPoint.  I will organize my slides into a PowerPoint,  but I don't use PowerPoint  because PowerPoint doesn't give me flexibility.  PowerPoint is a clunky thing.  It's clunky.  Click, click, click.  Forwards, forwards, forwards.  Backwards, backwards, backwards.  Forwards, forwards, forwards.  You're getting stuck on these things, right?  Well, with this thing, I can pretty much look at this  and decide where I'm going to go with stuff.  And I can adjust accordingly,  so I'm not stuck or constrained by PowerPoint.  All right.  Well, I'd like to start the class off  thinking about what I describe  as the foundations of biochemistry.  Biochemistry is a discipline that is relatively young.  The roots of biochemistry go way back  into the 1700s or 1800s  where people first started thinking about  the reason that cells were alive  and other things weren't alive.  And by the way,  anything that you're responsible for today,  I will tell you.  So I'm just kind of blithering and blathering  about things today  just to kind of get the mood set.  Okay.  So when they first started thinking about biochemistry,  the term didn't exist, of course,  but they were very curious  about what separated living systems  from other systems.  Okay.  Why is a cell alive and a rock is not?  Okay.  And that's a philosophical question at one level,  but it's also a very practical  and a biochemical question at another level.  Okay.  Thinking about what was it that made an organism alive  is something that probably has permeated  all of human history.  Okay.  We had this notion,  or people had a notion for a long time  that human beings were something  that was very different  from the rest of the living world,  but one of the things I think,  and I hope that you'll learn this term,  is that human cells are really no different  than anybody else.  You're going to be astonished to see  how similar in, not necessarily structure,  but how similar in organization  human cells are to bacterial cells.  The simplest bacterium on the face of the earth  has much more similarity to your cells  than you would ever imagine.  Okay.  People didn't know that at the time.  A bacterium doesn't look anything like a human cell.  In fact, back in the beginning of time,  people didn't know bacteria existed.  Bacteria, as far as anybody was concerned,  was a demon.  Right?  A demon was something that came  and something that attacked you.  Maybe it was an evil spirit,  or maybe it was whatever it was.  That was the explanation for what happened  when people got sick.  Okay.  We know the causes of sickness today.  We know there are viruses.  We know there are bacteria.  We know, in some cases, they are genetics.  Okay.  At that time, they didn't know that.  So this quest for understanding what was alive  has really been driving biochemistry.  Okay.  If we fast forward to the 1700s,  we get the first glimpses of what I call biochemistry,  and this was the invention of the microscope.  The microscope told us for the first time  that organisms were subdividable.  That was that a liver wasn't a thing.  A liver was something that was composed of individual cells.  It told us that cells were the basic living unit  in the universe, at least the universe of the earth.  All right?  They were the basic living unit.  We discovered, because we had microscopes in the 1700s  for the first time,  that there were what they described as animalcules.  Animalcules.  I like that name.  Right?  An animalcule is a combination of an animal and a molecule.  Right?  So an animalcule is a little tiny animal,  and that was their way of describing  what we now call as bacteria.  Okay?  Animalcules, of course, became later known as bacteria,  but even in our bodies,  we found that we had individual cells, too.  And so the question then arose,  well, if an organism has individual cells,  and an individual cell is the fundamental unit of life,  then there must be some fundamental difference  between a bacterial cell and a human cell  or between a human cell and a dog cell  or between a dog cell and a mouse cell.  Okay?  Well, there are differences between those.  There are differences that we can see  between a liver cell and a kidney cell  in the same organism.  DNA-wise, they're not.  But the appearance-wise, and for practical purposes,  they behave as different kinds of cells.  They are different.  So something told people that there was  something fundamentally different, okay,  that made cells be different.  What was it?  Was it the fact that they were created differently?  Was it the fact that there was something else  that we didn't know?  Okay?  Well, by the time we started understanding  what cells were,  people began to understand  what the fundamental units of the universe were as well.  We know them, of course, as atoms.  Okay?  It was clear that there were little invisible things  that were there that were the roots of everything.  Could it be that atoms were actually at the root of cells?  People toss that idea around a lot.  And for a long time, people felt that  there has to be something different about cells.  Maybe atoms exist, maybe molecules exist,  and maybe chemistry exists,  but whatever exists,  it has to be something different inside of a cell  because that's magic.  As late as the early 1900s,  people were saying  there's so much complexity inside of a cell,  we will never understand what makes an organism be alive.  Never say never.  Okay?  We will never understand what makes an organism be alive.  Now, what may come as a bit of a shock to you  is it wasn't until about the 1930s  that a man, excuse me,  that a man named Schrodinger  came up with a very radical idea.  And his radical idea was that  all of the things that we see in biology  have their roots in molecules.  It was finally, formally accepted.  It had previously been shown  that the chemistry that was going on  inside of living organisms  wasn't any different than what was going on outside of a cell.  The chemistry was the same.  The things that were made inside of a cell  could be made in a test tube outside the cell.  That wasn't a problem.  But for the first time, Schrodinger says  there is the root of all living systems.  It's not the cell.  The root is in the molecules.  Okay?  That was the very first, what I call,  what I call foundation of a discipline we call today  molecular biology.  You've all heard the term molecular biology.  You probably never thought what that meant.  Oh, it's molecular biology.  It's DNA, it's RNA, it's protein.  Yeah, it has all those things.  But molecular biology means  that at the root of every living system are molecules.  And the differences we see between different cells  are due to the molecules themselves.  Well, that was a great idea.  Nobody really knew what that meant.  Okay?  Until somebody finally sat down and said,  well, we know that cells can transmit information  from one to the next.  Mendel showed with his peas that traits could be inherited.  How is it that information could get passed along?  So it was a big race to find out  how that information could get passed along.  You know the results of that race.  The race was settled in 1953 when Watson and Crick,  using data they stole from Rosalind Franklin,  it's a true story, they stole the data,  using data they stole from Rosalind Franklin,  told them the structure of DNA.  DNA was the genetic material.  Here was how the information was passed.  Case closed.  Right?  Not quite.  Well, the case didn't close because  that was really opening doors.  All kinds of doors were opened.  Wow, here's DNA.  Subsequently, RNA was discovered.  I shouldn't say discovered, it was known before then,  but subsequently the role of RNA became quite clear.  The relationship between DNA, RNA, and protein became known.  And today we take for granted.  I talked to a group of high school students this past week,  and I'm sitting there showing them a molecule of DNA.  I've got a 3D classroom,  and people put on the goggles,  they can see everything in 3D.  The things are out in the classroom,  and they're all going, ooh, wow, wow.  And it's really cool.  I'll show you guys sometime if you want to see it.  And they're looking at this stuff,  and I'm sitting there going, you know,  everybody knows if I say, you know, DNA,  and I say, what goes with T,  I know what you're going to tell me.  And they all say, A.  If I say G, you're going to say C.  Every school kid knows now what nobody knew 60 years ago.  Remarkable.  Well, since then we now know the sequence  of all the DNA of the human genome.  We know the sequence of organisms, blah, blah, blah.  We know so much about what's happening inside of our cells  that we can't literally pick up a newspaper today  and not see something in there about some new biotech advance,  some new medical advance, et cetera.  That's happening because of this explosion of knowledge  that we've had in molecular biology and biochemistry.  So to me, that's what's really exciting.  That's what's wonderful.  It's a wonderful time to be alive.  It's a wonderful time to see the advances.  I will tell you how old I am.  When I was a graduate student here at Oregon State  back in the 1980s, before most of you were born,  when I was a graduate student back here  in the middle of the 1980s,  my thesis advisor wanted to give me a project  for my PhD thesis.  His project he wanted to give me  was he wanted me to isolate and sequence a human gene,  the gene that's involved in DNA replication.  And he said, I think this would be a good project for you.  What do you think?  And I said, well, let me think about it.  So I went home, and I thought about it,  and I looked it over, and I decided,  and I came back to him, and I told him,  I said, it's too complicated.  Too complicated.  Today, I could take any person in this room,  I could take a high school student,  and with the tools that we have available,  you could isolate that same gene overnight  with no training whatsoever.  That tells you that a revolution has happened.  A revolution has happened not only in the technology,  but in our knowledge and our ability to do things.  It also tells you how old I am.  That's really remarkable.  We take these things for granted,  and these advances are happening daily.  This is a world that's going by very rapidly,  and when we see these things that we pick up  and we read in the newspaper about these advances,  they're happening because of these advances in technology.  So I'm going to spend a little bit of time  during the term talking about various techniques,  various technologies, not to bore you with techniques,  but to show you some of the really remarkable things  that we can do.  All right, enough of the background here.  Now, you notice I didn't say anything in there,  but you're responsible for any of that.  Even though some of you are writing this down,  I think that's good.  That's very good.  Get in the habit of writing things down.  Okay.  You've all had organic chemistry.  In some case, I know some of you  haven't finished your organic chemistry,  and I've advised you not to take it  if you haven't finished your organic chemistry,  but you're here anyway.  Fortunately, I don't teach this class  as an organic chemistry class.  There are some basic things about organic chemistry  that I expect everybody will know,  and those things, basic names,  aldehydes, carboxylic acids,  we'll talk about those a lot, ketones, amides,  amines, esters, et cetera.  So when I talk about those,  you should have some understanding  about what they are,  and I'm not going to go back  and review organic chemistry with you.  We know, actually I'm not going to go through that.  The magic that happens inside of cells.  People wanted to have magic.  They had magic because they couldn't understand.  They didn't have the tools  to analyze what was happening inside of cells.  And when we don't have the tools  to analyze something,  and we don't have knowledge,  we're very frequently going to call it magic,  or we're going to call it demons.  Magic for the good stuff,  demons for the bad stuff.  Well, the magic that happened inside of cells  was the fact that cells could duplicate themselves.  Cells could reproduce.  Cells could take in energy  and make great things.  Well, the magic that happens inside of cells  happens because of macromolecules.  Here's something you should know.  Macromolecules include things like DNA.  DNA is the biggest molecule in your cells  by a long ways,  and nothing's even close.  Nothing is even close to your DNA.  I'll give you an example.  Your DNA in one cell.  How many people know  how big one of your cells in your body is?  Anybody give me a number.  How many meters is one cell of your body?  Five nanometers.  Five nanometers.  Okay, that's too small, too small.  Micrometers.  Okay, five micrometers is pretty close.  Five micrometers is pretty close.  About one to five microns.  That's one to five millionths of a meter.  Smaller than your eye can see,  your naked eye can see.  You need a microscope to see it.  That's why people didn't know we had cells  until they had microscopes.  But in that cell that's smaller than your eye can see  resides, and I'm not making this up,  seven feet of DNA.  There's seven feet of DNA in every one of your cells.  I kid you not.  If you took all the DNA of all the cells of your body  and you stretched it end to end,  you'd go to the sun and back.  You've got over 180 million miles of DNA in your body.  Now you know why you feel tired this afternoon.  You're carrying around 180 million miles of DNA  every time you take a step.  Right?  Okay, so DNA by a long ways  is the largest molecule in your body.  Related molecule in your body, RNA.  RNA structurally is very similar to DNA,  but RNA is slightly chemically different,  and it's smaller.  RNAs are made much smaller.  They're made from the DNA,  and they're made in little tiny pieces.  RNAs are much more abundant.  We have thousands, millions of them inside of our cells,  but we don't have the length of the RNAs in our cells.  Proteins.  Proteins are, you're going to hear this  over and over and over,  especially in the first couple weeks of the course.  Proteins are the workhorses of the cell.  Proteins catalyze reactions.  Those are known as the enzymes.  Proteins communicate information.  They're used in a process we call signaling.  By the way, whenever I go too fast,  just raise your hand and say,  Hey, Kevin, slow down.  Okay?  I won't stop pacing, though.  I always pace.  If you really want to see something funny,  all you have to do is watch the video at fast speed,  and you'll see me going,  ping, ping, ping, ping, ping, ping, ping.  Okay?  Nervous habits are hard to break, right?  Okay, so proteins, they catalyze the reactions.  They do signaling.  They let cells talk to each other.  They give structural integrity.  They give cells some structure.  And in some cases, they give organismal integrity.  Your fingernails, your hair, those are proteins.  And the last macromolecule that we'll be concerned with  is the polysaccharides.  These come in a variety of forms,  and they're used for a variety of purposes.  We use polysaccharides in our body primarily to store energy,  and most organisms have some sort of energy storage  they do with polysaccharides.  But others, like plants,  for the botany plant pathology people in here,  plants use polysaccharides  for structural integrity of their cells.  They actually make up the cell walls.  Okay.  Now, the building blocks of the macromolecules,  and we're going to talk more about these later,  but I'll just mention them now.  For proteins, the building blocks are amino acids.  Amino acids.  There are 20 amino acids that occur in all organisms,  because 20 amino acids are used to make all proteins.  There are a few rare amino acids  that are occasionally used to make proteins in addition,  but they're extraordinarily rare.  For all practical purposes,  there are 20 amino acids that make up proteins.  The building blocks for nucleic acids,  and by the way, nucleic acids is a term  that includes both DNA and RNA.  The building blocks of nucleic acids are the nucleotides.  Now, you think of them as A, G, C, T,  but that's only a part of the nucleotide, as we will see.  The A is only a part of the nucleotide,  but we won't worry about that today.  And the building blocks of the polysaccharides,  of course, are the sugars.  Alright.  DNA has this great property of being able to replicate itself.  I don't need to tell you this, you already know this.  Wherever there's a G,  it can be replaced on the other strand by a C.  Wherever there's a T, another strand by an A.  It's RNA as we have here, U and A instead of A and T, etc.  But, the point is that there's information  contained in a strand of DNA or RNA,  and that information can be used to make additional copies.  And that's a very, very valuable and important trait.  I kind of like this structure, self-replicating molecules.  We think that life on Earth evolved originally from molecules  that started to replicate themselves.  Started to replicate themselves.  We know in very simple chemistry  that it's possible to start making macromolecules.  We know in the conditions of primordial Earth  that those macromolecules can connect with each other  and those macromolecules under certain conditions  can start to copy themselves.  And we think that was actually the origins of life on Earth.  Now, here's your biology lesson for the day.  Everybody's frowning.  I've never seen such a frowning class.  Why are you frowning?  Nobody wants to look at me.  Once I say that, nobody wants to look at me.  Everybody starts smiling.  Are you guys going to be my frowniest class ever, or what?  Maybe we're just focusing.  You're just focusing.  Do you frown when you're really learning things?  Maybe?  Well, that's good.  So if frowning means that you're learning,  then I'm all in favor of frowning.  But usually it means I can't stand your guts.  Okay, I don't know.  So maybe I should tell you a joke.  You want a joke?  Sure.  If I tell you a joke, will you promise to laugh?  Yes.  You promise?  Yeah.  Okay, all right.  You have to laugh, too.  So this is one of my favorite jokes of all time.  All of my jokes are one of my favorite jokes of all time.  But this is, right now, one of my favorite jokes of all time.  So this joke, all right.  So there's this little guy named Artie that wants to be a hitman.  If you heard this joke, please don't give it away.  He wants to be a hitman.  He wants to go kill people for a living,  and she's rolling her eyes.  You've heard this joke, haven't you?  Yeah, okay, yeah, yeah.  He wants to be a hitman, right?  So he goes out, and he puts up signs around the neighborhood.  It says, you know, willing to kill somebody for cheap, right?  So you want to get started, you've got to do it for cheap.  You give away your services, people get your reputation out there,  next thing you know, people start paying you a lot of money  to do what you want to do, right?  So Artie goes out there, and he puts up the signs,  and it says, you know, will kill somebody for cheap.  Puts his phone number down there, you know,  and he's sitting around the house, and the phone rings,  and says, hey, are you Artie?  And he goes, yeah.  Well, that's how I get somebody I want you to kill.  Good, good, good.  He says, I want you to kill my wife.  Oh, okay, yeah, that's fine.  He says, how much are you going to charge?  He said, well, I said I'd do it for cheap.  He said, how's a dollar?  And he said, that sounds good to me.  He says, can you kill her right now?  He said, well, yeah, sure, I'll put my pants on, you know,  go get dressed and go out.  Where's she at?  He says, well, she's down at the grocery store.  So he gives her the direction of the grocery store,  gives Artie a description of what she looks like and everything,  and so he goes down there.  And he looks around the grocery store for somebody  meeting this description, and he looks, and all of a sudden,  oh, there she is.  She's over there, right?  So he goes tip, tip, tip, tip-toeing, you know,  and he gets up there, and he sneaks up,  and he grabs her from behind, and he chokes her to death  right there in the grocery store, okay?  Strangles her right there in the grocery store, okay?  He's feeling pretty good, and he's turning around  and trying to get away, and he looks around,  and nobody saw him, right?  Well, they can't have a witness, because he's not going to,  you know, be a hitman for very long with a witness.  So he goes over and he grabs the witness,  and he grabs and he strangles them right there  in the grocery store as well.  He's feeling okay.  Now he makes his getaway, and ah, da, da, da,  there's somebody over here, right?  Just my lucky day, right?  Every time I turn around, there's somebody  that's seen me kill somebody, right?  So he goes over and he strangles this person.  He goes running out.  He thinks he's made his great escape,  but the police catch him, sadly,  and the headlines in the newspaper the next day read,  Artie chokes three for a dollar at the grocery store.  Audience laughs.  I can tell by the groans that not everybody  had heard that joke before.  Artie, you see, was, okay.  Now if you go tell all your friends next year  when I go tell that joke,  everybody will have heard it, right?  Don't tell next year's class that joke.  That'll be good.  Okay.  Here's your biology lesson.  I have to tell you a joke  before I tell you your biology lesson.  How many people like freshman biology?  Okay, two people.  Well, I won't ask how many didn't like freshman biology,  but I have a feeling I know.  Okay, freshman biology, cell biology.  So the reason I bring this up  is I will talk this term a fair amount  about different cell types.  So there are really three major divisions of cell types  on the face of the Earth.  Prokaryotic cells, eukaryotic cells,  and what are called the Archeans.  The Archeans are a very odd group of cells.  We're learning a lot more about them  since they've been discovered relatively recently,  maybe in the last 30 years or so.  But we're not going to say much about the Archeans.  We will focus an awful lot on the most common types of cells  which are the bacteria, known as the prokaryotes.  That's P-R-O-K-A-R-Y-O-T-E-S.  And the eukaryotes, which include things like animals,  cats, dogs, plants, fungi.  So multicellular organisms will always be eukaryotic.  Multicellular organisms will always be eukaryotic.  Yes, you need to know this.  There are some unicellular eukaryotic organisms.  They include yeast,  stuff you make bread and beer with.  Yeast are unicellular eukaryotic organisms.  But there are no multicellular prokaryotic organisms.  All the prokaryotic organisms are unicellular.  We call them bacteria most commonly.  Now there are differences in these organisms  from a visible point of view.  Bacteria, first of all, are considerably smaller  than eukaryotic cells.  Prokaryotic cells are smaller.  Prokaryotic cells are much simpler in appearance.  Prokaryotic cells, for example, don't have a nucleus.  They don't have organelles.  They don't have mitochondria.  They don't have endoplasmic reticulum.  They're basically what people describe  as a bag of enzymes and DNA.  And that's what they are.  There's no division of things into separate regions  like there is in eukaryotic cells.  In eukaryotic cells we see organization.  We see a nucleus where the DNA and the RNA are found.  We see a mitochondrion where the energy is made.  We see lysosomes that are involved in breaking things down.  We see the endoplasmic reticulum  which is involved in trafficking and modifying proteins.  So fundamental differences in the cell types  and we'll say more about those.  Now despite those fundamental differences  what we're going to see is that down at the molecular level  there's not much difference.  There's really not very much difference  between bacteria and between cells of eukaryotes.  I like that picture.  Kind of cool.  E. coli, the most abundant organism in your gut.  How many people in here  have ever worked with E. coli in the laboratory?  What does it smell like?  S-H-I-T.  That's what gives your doo-doo the smell.  They're very commonly used in laboratories  not to punish students  but rather because they're extraordinarily studied.  Extremophiles.  These include some bizarre things  that come from bizarre regions of Earth.  They're commonly Archean organisms.  Not always, but they're commonly Archean organisms.  This is something from a,  I think it's a sulfur pit in Yellowstone Park.  And the eukaryotic cells, we get to them.  Here's a representation now  of some of the structures that we see inside of there.  So we've got the nucleus,  and I'm not going to go back and ask you to label  and do all this sort of stuff.  I think you should know some general things  about the organelles like I have mentioned to you.  Just very general things about the organelles.  One of the things students and men find surprising  is the fact that cells, just like our body,  also have a skeleton.  We call it a cytoskeleton,  and you can see it depicted.  It's been stained here.  Very cool for you to see, nice and clear.  That cytoskeleton gives cells some structure,  and it's something that has to be manipulated  very continuously by cells  to perform the things that they do.  Okay, let's see.  Energy.  One of the things we're going to talk about this term a lot  is energy.  Because energy is necessary for living organisms.  We're going to see why.  I'll tell you why briefly.  We're going to see why later  when we talk more about the Gibbs free energy.  Energy is necessary to organize.  Energy is necessary to organize.  How many people know what entropy is?  Everybody knows what entropy is.  Describe entropy to me.  What's entropy?  Things continually fall apart or break down.  Yeah, chaos.  Things will tend to move to disorder  instead of moving towards order, right?  There are people who mistakenly think that  because things move towards disorder,  or at least we think they move towards disorder,  that that's got to be wrong  because we look at cells, they're very ordered.  And if things went towards disorder,  how in the world can we be ordered?  How can we have such order in the things that we do  if the universal tendency is towards disorder?  Well, the answer is,  the analogy I like to give is the deck of cards.  The deck of cards, you take, you throw up in the air.  You pick up all the cards.  Most likely they're not organized,  ace, king, queen, jack, blah, blah, blah.  They're going to be in sort of a random order, right?  If you sit down and you spend some time playing solitaire  and you organize those cards,  they then end up being ace, king, queen, jack,  ten, nine, eight, blah, blah, blah, right?  How did that happen?  Well, it happened because you put energy into it.  Putting energy into things enables order to be possible.  Putting energy into the universe  allows your cells to organize themselves  and fight that constant battle of entropy.  Cells are fighting that battle constantly.  If they have no energy, they lose the battle.  Without energy, you lose the battle against entropy.  Cells cannot be chaotic.  Cells cannot live in a totally jumbled world.  They have to be able to maintain some control.  That control happens because of energy.  The energy that happens in our cells is stored  in a couple of different important forms.  The immediate form energy is stored in our cells is ATP.  Everybody knows that.  ATP is the gasoline of cells.  Adenosine triphosphate.  Why is it stored there?  Well, it turns out that when you put phosphates  chemically joined next to each other,  they really don't like to be chemically joined next to each other.  Phosphates are negatively charged.  Put three phosphates,  one phosphate, another phosphate,  another phosphate next to each other,  you've got three things that want to repel each other  and they're chemically tied together.  They're chemically tied together.  When you allow them to fly apart, they do.  Like a bat out of hell.  They release energy.  When you break the bond, the energy is released,  the phosphate goes flying away,  and that energy can be used to do something.  So ATP is our most immediate source of energy.  We store energy with a variety of molecules.  We store it in the form of fat.  We store it in the form of carbohydrates.  We even store it in the form of proteins,  although that's not used primarily  as an energy source in our cells, that is.  From a nutrition point of view,  proteins are a very important source of energy  for those of you who are in nutrition,  for those of you who are in nutrition,  because, not because our cells are using it  as an energy source, but because we're eating it  and using the energy of some other cell  to power things for us.  We think about things like Atkins diet, for example.  Atkins diet is a high-protein, low-carbohydrate diet  and if that energy were not in the proteins,  people on Atkins diet would lose weight  even faster than they do.  They still lose weight reasonably fast.  But for our cells,  phosphates linked together in the form of ATP  are an immediate source of energy  and used universally throughout our cells.  The last thing I'll finish with here today,  that's just a silly example.  The last thing I'll finish is actually  describing something to you.  I like this example, though,  because this example tells us that  energy can be stored in some pretty amazing ways  and do some pretty amazing things.  Electric eels can electrocute.  They can kill you  with the electric voltage that they build up.  So we think of energy in terms of heat.  We think of energy in terms of mechanical things.  We don't always think of biological energy  in terms of electrical.  But as we will see,  biological energy is, in fact, electrical as well.  We talk about nerve transmission, for example.  We're going to see there's an electrical component to that.  Very important to understand.  What I wanted to finish with,  I thought I had a slide,  but I guess I didn't put that in there,  was a description of potential energy  versus kinetic energy.  Potential versus kinetic energy.  You guys have seen the example.  You've got the ball up the hill.  The ball rolls up the hill.  Balls don't roll up hills.  You have to roll balls uphill, by the way.  There's this thing called gravity.  The ball up the hill has potential energy.  You have to put energy in there to get it up there.  You have to put energy into a molecule to make ATP.  ATP is potential energy.  It can be used for something.  The ball rolls down the hill, kinetic energy.  We see the energy being released  and the fact that it's moving down the hill,  gravity's pulling it down.  The loss of that energy in the form of ATP  is the phosphate being cleaved and that phosphate flying away.  Exactly the same sort of thing,  just at a molecular level instead of a macroscopic level.  With that said, I think I will stop for today  and I will see you tomorrow. 