 to you, a reflexive notion of music.  Hello, Hari, we are welcome.  We are very pleased to have you here  on Contrast Festival in Lviv,  unfortunately this year virtually,  hope that next year it will change a lot.  And today your third lecture  dedicated a reflexive notion of music.  So thank you very much for being here,  at least virtually, and please,  we can start your lecture now.  Thank you.  Thank you very much for the nice introduction  and good afternoon to everybody.  Today at my third lecture  at the Contemporary Music Festival Contrasts in Lviv,  I would like to present to you a model  how the idea of new music has changed  due to the digital evolution of music.  And the thesis is, as the title suggests,  the concept or the notion of art music  has become reflexive.  The two previous lecture on Trond Reinhardson's opera  and on conceptual art and music will fit into this model.  In 2012, I published a book,  The Digital Revolution of Music and Music Philosophy.  And in my opinion, music philosophy  is not really an academic discipline.  Philosophical thinking about music is only needed  in those rare historical moments  when the entire musical culture  is undergoing a serious change.  And as a result, it becomes necessary  to rethink the whole concept  and the whole notion of art music.  My thesis, which I had presented in 2008  in a thought experiment,  was that exactly this is the case  at the beginning of the 21st century,  because a change from a literary  to a digital music culture is taking place.  Many of the arguments in the book  were hypothetical eight years ago  and have now become almost self-evident.  Above all, there are many new works in new music  in which this change toward digital music culture  manifests itself.  And accordingly, it is much easier to say today  in what sense the notion of music has changed.  If one understands music philosophy in this sense,  it has three different problems to solve.  First, it must reconstruct the old paradigm  that has been valid up to now.  Let us call it paradigm one.  And secondly, music philosophy has to describe  the transformation mechanism  that leads to the present paradigm shift,  which is today triggered by the digital revolution.  And thirdly, music philosophy is faced  with the task of designing the following paradigm,  paradigm two being created.  So what does it mean to reconstruct a paradigm?  And more specifically, a paradigm of art music?  In principle, it is a matter of analyzing the grammar  of the hegemonic self-description in the new music system.  The task has a descriptive and it has a normative aspect.  On the one hand, one has to clarify the question,  what is music?  This is about what belongs to the sphere of art music  and who has access to it and to the resources  and who does not.  On the other hand, one has to reconstruct  the normative question, what is good music  or what is excellent or outstanding music?  Culture is always a competitive field  in which decisions have to be made  about distribution of resources, about performances,  about grants and prices.  Both the descriptive and the normative questions  are more or less pre-decided in a musical culture  and belong to the grammar and to the self-description  of art music in a given time.  So let us start with a descriptive question.  What was the historical notion of new music?  New music was constituted at the beginning  of the 20th century and its most important  distinguishing feature was at that time atonality.  It is through the difference between tonal  and atonal music that new music can constitute itself  in contrast to classical music.  This suspension of the tonal system by new music  has strong implications.  One immediate consequence is that new music  is distinguished from popular music,  which is anchored in the tonal system and follows a beat.  The distinction between serious music and popular music  is thus a direct consequence of the abstract negation  of classical music, which follows the principle of tonality  and accordingly has melody, rhythm and harmony.  A third boundary is formed by new music to the other arts  when it began to develop at the beginning  of the 20th century.  Like classical music, new music was absolute music.  In other words, pure instrumental music  defined what music is by its very nature.  New music thus took over the self-description  of classical music, which essentially  followed Eduard Hanslick.  In 1854, Hanslick had written in his book  on the musically beautiful, tonally moving forms  of the soul content and object of music.  In exactly this sense, also new music  originally understood itself as pure instrumental music,  which could be fully described by inner musical parameters  such as pitch, rhythm, harmony, and timbre.  New music has never been a direct representation  of the world and could not simply  reflect life-world experiences.  It was rather assumed that the structure  of pure instrumental music reflected  the structure of the universe.  It was assumed that there was a structural analogy  between music and world.  The term new music was originally  defined by four boundaries, a demarcation  from classical music, popular music, the other arts,  and the life-world.  The question is, of course, why there are just  four and not three or five constitutive boundaries.  The decisive factor for the selection  here, however, is that one uses those distinctions that  have already played a role in the new music discourse  or in the art discourse in general.  And here, I would argue that all other conceivable boundaries  can be traced back to one of those boundaries  in one way or another.  With this, we can answer the first descriptive question  about the paradigm of new music.  New music was originally absolute music.  Henselik's idea of absolute music  reminded the hegemonic self-description  of both classical music in the 19th century  and new music in the 20th century.  Of course, there were always counter-movements,  such as program music, but these always  remind a kind of secondary idea in the self-description  of art music.  The next question is, which normative guiding idea  belonged to the paradigm of new music?  The short answer is newness.  The modern arts have developed through a negation  of the central idea of classical art,  namely through a negation of the idea of beauty  that has been valid in the arts for centuries.  Even today, old art academies carry the classical idea  of beauty in their name.  Literally translated, the Academy of Arts in Munich  is called Academy of Beautiful Arts.  However, modern art no longer wants to be beautiful,  but above all, it wants to be new,  which is reflected in the name of new music.  New music was new above all because of it  used new compositional techniques  to create new music experiences.  In this respect, new music in the 20th century  followed a material aesthetic whose normative idea  was to permanently create new aesthetical material.  With Adorno, one can say that new music  followed the ideal of so-called material progress.  The paradigm of new music in the 20th century  is thus composed of a descriptive  and of a normative guiding idea.  It was in itself understanding as absolute music  and followed the normative ideal of material aesthetics  or material progress.  For a long time, the idea of material aesthetics  was a source of innovation.  But as early as the 1970s, the end of material progress  was reached.  The last new isms, such as music,  concrete instrumentals, spectralism, minimalism,  they are all developed almost half a century ago.  Since the 1990s, the dilemma of innovation  has become evident, as even Helmut Lachenmann noted  in an essay at that time.  The idea of material aesthetics has since  lost its persuasive power in new music  and, as here in the model, began to fade.  Since the first signs of exhaustion of material progress,  it took another four decades until the digital revolution  created a real chance to get out of this innovation dead end.  In Germany, digitization in new music  become a topic of discussion around 2008.  This year, I presented a thought experiment  on this topic at the Darmstadt Spring Conference.  The decisive factor was that YouTube  had been around since 2005, and composers  were beginning to discover the platform for themselves.  From this time of 2008, 2009, for example,  Johannes Kreitel created charts music,  Peter Ablinger the talking piano,  and Trond Reinhardsen the complete music performance  videos.  These are conceptual music pieces  produced only for YouTube and can only reach a wider  audience via YouTube.  The music video became a new storage and distribution  medium for new music.  Conceptual music is in stark contrast  to the idea of absolute music.  It is the complete opposite of pure instrumental music.  Sometimes musical instruments are also  deliberately destroyed.  For this reason, conceptual music  had no role in new music and was largely ignored  and systematically excluded in the 20th centuries  from the new music system.  However, the digital revolution is not only a technological,  but also a social revolution and sets everything  in motion, both in terms of the production, distribution,  and reception of music.  An important aspect, among many others,  is that digitalization also changes  the structure of institutions.  In principle, the digitalization of new music  also leads to a deinstitutionalization  of the new music system.  Thus, it was only the dissemination  of conceptual music via YouTube that  led to the subsequent inclusion of conceptual music  in art music.  Music institutions create prerequisites  for the emergence of such a sophisticated cultural  achievement as new music is.  The first most important institutional pillars  of the new music system were, in the 20th century,  first, the academy.  This refers to all institutions where music is taught.  The knowledge of notation, playing techniques,  compositional techniques was, at least until recently,  a kind of secret knowledge that could only  be acquired within and not outside these institutions.  A second institutional pillar is  formed by the ensembles which perform art music.  Music does not really exist if it exists only as a score.  Thirdly, one of the most important music institutions  was the publishing house that printed music scores.  Fourthly, an essential institutional pillar  in countries like Germany is public broadcasting  preparation through which new music distributed, promoted,  and financially supported.  One could mention here a whole range  of other music institutions, such as music criticism  or collecting society like GEMA or music foundations  like the Siemens Foundation and the Siemens Prize.  But ultimately, these five institutional pillars  have supported the new music system in the 20th century.  Accordingly, the next question is  how digitization is changing the new music system today.  And in keeping with our festival theme metamorphosis,  one could also ask what kind of metamorphosis  new music is experiencing in the wake of the digital revolution.  And the basic idea is that the digitization  creates bypasses, byways, and detours to musical institutions.  Today, technological alternatives to musical institutions  are available everywhere.  Instead of music publishers, one can produce one's own sheet music  with notation programs, such as Canale.  Composers whose music is not broadcasted on public radio  can at least share their music on YouTube.  You can write about music not only in music magazines,  but also on websites and blogs.  And besides recordings with a real ensemble,  there is now also the possibility to record a score  with virtual orchestras.  And finally, you can experience new music not exclusively  live at the music festival, but today there  are also online streaming and internet concerts.  At first glance, these technological alternatives  all seem like second choice for losers.  But they do change the whole music culture  and redefine who the winner and the losers are.  Due to these technological bypasses, a gradual deinstitutionalization  of the new music system is taking place.  The strongly institutionalized new music system  has been able to strictly regulate access to art music  because the institutions have been able to perform a gatekeeper function.  And those who were not allowed through one door  could not pass through the other doors.  Without studying music at a music academy,  a composer could not find a publisher.  Without a publisher, he could not get commissions.  Without commissions, there was no performance of the written score.  And without performances, one was not really a composer at all.  Here you can see some aspects of progressive deinstitutionalization  of art music.  At first, there is a loss of control over the inclusion and exclusion  of musicians and composers in the new music scene.  Composers can come from other music genres  and other art scenes much more than before.  There's also a general democratization of music  because the moment art music becomes more accessible,  it also loses its previous elite status.  The cultural economy is also changing.  An economy of scarcity is becoming an economy of abundance,  where there is an abundance of composers, compositions, and performances.  Of course, under these conditions, one must also reckon with more dilettantism.  But there's also a gain of autonomy for composers.  The previous culture of commissions is being replaced by a culture of offer.  That is important.  Most works will be created without commissions,  mainly because there are alternative recording possibilities.  One consequence of this is that music institutions can no longer define  what art music is when they award commissions and performances to composers.  The character of composer careers is also changing.  In a strongly institutional art system, they are slow and sustained,  whereas in a weakly institutionalized art scene,  careers take off very quickly,  but they also come to an end at the next moment.  Moreover, precarization is now growing,  resulting in a loss of social security for participants.  How do these deinstitutionalization processes affect the music itself?  The central thesis is that there is a gradual transgression  of the historical genres and notions of new music,  whereby transgression here means a dissolution of boundaries  or the crossing of existing boundaries of the new music system.  The transgression of new music takes place in relation to the four boundaries  that we have pre-constructed as the constitutive boundaries  of new music at the beginning of the 20th century.  There is thus a transgression in relation to the other arts,  to the live world, to popular music and to classical music.  The computer is a universal interface to connect and combine music with pictures,  movies, texts, diagrams, everyday sounds, popular music and much more.  But this creates a completely different type of art music.  New music is no longer absolute music,  but that would be my suggestion, it becomes relational music.  Relational music crosses the border to the other arts  and with it a constitutive border of the historical notion of new music is dissolved.  Absolute music was the dominant idea of art music in the 20th century,  because it was almost impossible for composers to compose  with any other aesthetic material than sounds produced by acoustic instruments.  Relational music is emerging and is increasingly shaping art music,  because today all composers can use the corresponding computer programs equally.  Relational music like 19th century program music is a counter concept  or the opposite term to the idea of absolute music.  In contrast to program music, however, relational music refers not only to a narrative in program music,  but to any extra musical material that becomes an essential part of the composition.  The so-called extra musical material has so far been excluded from the notion of art music,  which defines itself as absolute music.  In contrast, the extra musical material is included in the notion of art music,  which defines itself as relational music.  One could, of course, object that the idea of relational music is not really new.  Composers like Pierre Chopin, Maurizio Carvi or Helmut Lachemann  have long since composed with everyday sound, theatrical movements and language.  However, the extra musical material was once again subjected by these composers to the logic of absolute music.  The everyday noise recorded on tape are processed by Schoepfer until they sound completely abstract  and all external references are erased.  In Cargill's compositions, human movements follow the sound and rhythm of the music.  And in Lachemann's work, human speech is broken down into sound material that speech loses its communicative function.  The real criterion for distinguishing between absolute and relational music  is the criterion of alterity, that is, whether or not musical material really retains its otherness.  Carola Barkow's OIC from 2015-16 for clarinet, piano, cello and two players for rubber balls  is a fine example of relational music.  The main props in this piece are two rubber balls on the knees of the players, as you can see here in the sketch.  These balls go through a series of metamorphoses in the piece.  First, the balls appear as mere objects. You can see the balls on stage.  Secondly, they are used as drums.  Thirdly, the two balls transform into two eyes.  Fourth, the two eyes begin to perceive the surroundings, that is, they turn in the direction of the sound coming from the stage.  The fifth metamorphosis is reached when the sounds come from everywhere and you see a kind of hearing with open eyes.  And sixth, in the final stage, the eyes move to the rhythm of the music.  Here, a synchronization of hearing and seeing occurs.  The musical material really retains its otherness.  Carola Barkow's OIC from 2015-16 for clarinet, piano, cello and two players for rubber balls is a fine example of relational music.  The main props in this piece are two rubber balls on the knees of the players, as you can see here in the sketch.  These balls transform into two eyes.  Breast, Shaking Hands, or Stockhausen's text scores  like Set Sail for the Sun.  However, at the time they were created,  these pieces were not composed as conceptual music,  they were not named as conceptual music,  and they were not received as conceptual music.  Today we can label these works  as historical conceptual music,  but they had had no implications  for the internal process of differentiation  of the notion of art music.  Digital conceptual music was provocative  for the new music scene and caused some controversy  because this kind of music, or let's say anti-music,  was most in conflict with the hegemonic paradigm  of the new music scene.  Conceptual music negates both the idea of absolute music  and the idea of material progress.  In most cases, conceptual music is also anesthetic,  that is, it is something like ready-made music  in the style of Duchamp.  Here you can see an entire issue  of the Neue Zeitschrift für Musik,  the New Journal for Music,  with text by Johannes Kreitel, myself, and others.  In my contribution,  I introduced the distinction  between digital and historical conceptual music  and also developed the argument  why there has been a systematic exclusion  of historical conceptual music  from the new music scene in the 20th century.  Until a decade ago,  conceptual music lacked an adequate storage  and distribution medium.  That is the main argument.  And this adequate storage and distribution medium  became only available with video platforms like YouTube.  Here is an example where you can see the difference  between historical and digital conceptual music in one piece.  Johannes Kreitel's Kinect 3D Sensor Studies No. 2  also includes a reenactment of a Fluxus piece,  the Fluxus piece by Robert Bozzi from 1966.  ♪♪♪  ♪♪♪  ♪♪♪  ♪♪♪  ♪♪♪  ♪♪♪  ♪♪♪  Bozzi's piece was a radical concept piece  created solely in the imagination of the reader  and could not be performed until now  if only because of the health risk involved.  In 2011, Kreitel came up with the idea  of actually performing the piece  with the help of trigger lines,  thus transferring a prime example  of historical conceptual music  into a genre of digital conceptual music.  The plastic bucket as a substitute for a helmet  makes it clear that Bozzi's concept piece  is not simply realized,  but that Kreitel makes an ironic comment  on the historical conceptual music.  The best-known characteristic of postmodern art  is the deliberate crossing of boundaries  from high culture to popular culture.  In comparison with postmodernism in the visual arts,  this border crossing in new music was only half-hearted  so that no real musical postmodernism  has developed in the 20th century.  As examples of postmodernism in art music,  musicologists usually cite pieces  like the First Symphony of Alfred Schnittke,  the Third String Quartet im Innersten by Wolfgang Grimm,  or the ensemble piece for four voices  de-styled by Louis Andriessen.  All these pieces break with an avant-garde taboo  in one way or another,  partly by moving back into the tonal system.  But this half-hearted postmodern new music  does not really bridge the gap to popular music  and popular culture,  but rather, quote,  classical music or highbrow jazz.  Postmodern art works with kitsch,  pornography, and with travel genres,  which cannot be found in the new music of the 20th century  with its strong affinity to classical music.  If you want to develop a theory of musical postmodernism,  a good test question is,  who is the Jeff Koons and the Andy Warhol of new music?  In 2016, Norris Eggert's piece Muzak  was premiered with the Bavarian Radio Symphony Orchestra,  a piece which is comparable  to the postmodernism of Koons and Warhol.  In this essay titled Muzak,  or How Postmodernism Has Afflicted New Music,  I presented a corresponding theory  of musical postmodernism.  The essay has two parts.  The first part is a theoretical part  in which I present a notion of postmodern art.  Postmodern art has three criteria.  It is popular, ironic,  and postmodern art has a double coding.  In the second part, I discuss Moritz Eggert's piece,  which is a collage of popular music.  So you can hear Elvis, Louis Armstrong,  Lou Reed, Tom Weitz, David Bowie,  John Lennon, and much, much more.  SEE ME?  and now I see you, and you can really see me  and now I can see you, and you can really see me  and now I can really see you, and you can really see me  and now I can see you, and you can really see me  and now I see you, and you can really see me  And now I can really see you  And you can really see me  And now I can see you  And you can really see me  And now I see  Just one more time  Baby, baby  Baby, baby  Just one more time  Baby, baby  Baby, baby  Baby, baby  Just one more time  Hey, all you people all around the city  Saturday night is a-coming  And the kids are all right  And the kids are all right  Hey, everybody, listen to the music  Saturday night is a-coming  And the kids are all right  And the kids are all right  Oh, baby, I can't stop loving you  Oh, baby, I can't stop loving you  Will you smile when I tell you  Mozart is not only a half-hearted,  but a real example of musical postmodernism  that uncompromisingly crosses the border  to popular music, as you could hear.  Eggert's piece fulfills  all three postmodernism criteria  at the same time.  And it's important to say  that this performance took place  at the New Music Festival.  First, the piece is popular.  It is a well-composed,  trivial pop music potpourri  with many love songs.  Secondly, the piece is very ironic.  The New Music composer,  Morris Eggert himself,  is on stage and sings  with the large symphony orchestra  like a pop music star,  as you could see on the photo.  And thirdly, the piece is double-coated.  The pop music audience can enjoy  the sound and the performance  on the one hand.  And on the other hand,  the insider of art music  can perceive the piece  as a contribution to the discourse  on musical postmodernism.  In recent years,  the false borderline  between new music and classical music  has also become porous.  But not because of the  postmodern quotation.  This borderline is now being bridged  with the help of digital technology.  Virtual orchestras such as East-West  or the Vienna Symphonic Library  have been around for over 10 years.  In art music, however,  virtual instruments are not only used  to record scores,  but they are becoming  a new medium of composition.  Because of this functional change  of virtual instruments,  I have suggested to name  this kind of art music differently  and to speak of e-player music here.  An example of such e-player composition  would be Thomas Hummel's ensemble piece  Zinaida Karbaljenka for six instruments  and e-player orchestra from 2014.  Thomas Hummel is the creator of Contembra,  a virtual orchestra  with extended playing techniques,  which also includes a Contembra e-player.  The piece contains sound surfaces  as they can be heard, for instance,  in Ligeti's Atmospheres,  for which you would normally need  15 musicians to create them.  But here they have been composed  with e-players.  There is even a passage  for 30 e-player bass trumpets  with bassoon mouthpieces  that could never be recorded  with a real orchestra.  There is a passage for 60 e-player trumpets  with bassoon mouthpieces  that could never be recorded  with a real orchestra.  There is even a passage  for 30 e-player bass trumpets  with bassoon mouthpieces  that could never be recorded  with a real orchestra.  There is even a passage  for 60 e-player bass trumpets  with bassoon mouthpieces  that could never be recorded  with a real orchestra.  There is even a passage  for 60 e-player bass trumpets  with bassoon mouthpieces  that could never be recorded  with a real orchestra.  There is even a passage  for 60 e-player bass trumpets  with bassoon mouthpieces  that could never be recorded  with a real orchestra.  There is even a passage  for 60 e-player bass trumpets  with bassoon mouthpieces  that could never be recorded  with a real orchestra.  There is even a passage  for 60 e-player bass trumpets  with bassoon mouthpieces  that could never be recorded  with a real orchestra.  There is even a passage  for 60 e-player bass trumpets  with bassoon mouthpieces  that could never be recorded  with a real orchestra.  There is even a passage  for 60 e-player bass trumpets  with bassoon mouthpieces  that could never be recorded  with a real orchestra.  There is even a passage  for 60 e-player bass trumpets  with bassoon mouthpieces  that could never be recorded  with a real orchestra.  There is even a passage  for 60 e-player bass trumpets  with bassoon mouthpieces  that could never be recorded  with a real orchestra.  There is even a passage  for 60 e-player bass trumpets  with bassoon mouthpieces  that could never be recorded  with a real orchestra.  There is even a passage  for 60 e-player bass trumpets  with bassoon mouthpieces  that could never be recorded  with a real orchestra.  There is even a passage  for 60 e-player bass trumpets  with bassoon mouthpieces  that could never be recorded  with a real orchestra.  There is even a passage  for 60 e-player bass trumpets  with bassoon mouthpieces  that could never be recorded  with a real orchestra.  There is even a passage  for 60 e-player bass trumpets  with bassoon mouthpieces  that could never be recorded  with a real orchestra.  There is even a passage  for 60 e-player bass trumpets  with bassoon mouthpieces  that could never be recorded  with a real orchestra.  There is even a passage  for 60 e-player bass trumpets  with bassoon mouthpieces  that could never be recorded  with a real orchestra.  There is even a passage  for 60 e-player bass trumpets  with bassoon mouthpieces  that could never be recorded  with a real orchestra.  There is even a passage  for 60 e-player bass trumpets  with bassoon mouthpieces  that could never be recorded  with a real orchestra.  There is even a passage  for 60 e-player bass trumpets  with bassoon mouthpieces  that could never be recorded  with a real orchestra.  There is even a passage  for 60 e-player bass trumpets  with bassoon mouthpieces  that could never be recorded  with a real orchestra.  There is even a passage  for 60 e-player bass trumpets  with bassoon mouthpieces  that could never be recorded  with a real orchestra.  There is even a passage  for 60 e-player bass trumpets  with bassoon mouthpieces  that could never be recorded  with a real orchestra.  There is even a passage  for 60 e-player bass trumpets  with bassoon mouthpieces  that could never be recorded  with a real orchestra.  There is even a passage  for 60 e-player bass trumpets  with bassoon mouthpieces  that could never be recorded  with a real orchestra.  There is even a passage  for 60 e-player bass trumpets  with bassoon mouthpieces  that could never be recorded  with a real orchestra.  There is even a passage  for 60 e-player bass trumpets  with bassoon mouthpieces  that could never be recorded  with a real orchestra.  There is even a passage  for 60 e-player bass trumpets  with bassoon mouthpieces  that could never be recorded  with a real orchestra.  There is even a passage  for 60 e-player bass trumpets  with bassoon mouthpieces  that could never be recorded  with a real orchestra.  piano only, no vocals  piano only, no vocals  I would like to show you  a clip from the film  that was shown during the concert.  You will first see how the pianist  plays through the entire repertoire  of modern piano music  from Debussy to Stockhausen  to come up with new ideas.  Then she takes a cat  to the composer's studio  and the time for the empty set appears  which in this context means  that all assumptions and values  of new music should be suspended.  The piano concert makes a clear sweep  and seeks a radical new beginning.  The pianist searches together  with three trolls for a way out  of the so-called postmodern march.  These are pure e-player compositions  in which all vocal parts  were by Franz Heinrichson himself  sung and edited on the computer.  piano only, no vocals  piano only, no vocals  piano only, no vocals  piano only, no vocals  piano only, no vocals  ♪♪  ♪♪  Of course, one will have to wait and see which new self-description of art music will actually prevail in a digital music culture,  but I see the greatest innovation potential in this reflexive art music that operates in a content-aesthetic way. 