 In February 2012, the galleries of Greek, Roman, and Byzantine art were deinstalled  for the new galleries opening in November 2012.  This fragment of a sculpture of the Roman god Mars weighs almost 190 pounds.  Over the next nine months, many of these artworks will undergo extensive conservation.  Precise equipment is often needed to deinstall heavy or fragile works of art safely.  Last bolt.  Bracket coming off.  All right.  Everybody get in place.  All right.  You can come.  This one's safe.  Wiggle your end out, please.  Yeah, we probably...  You're good.  You got it?  You need to try it?  Yeah.  After taking this mosaic down, curators and conservators have a chance to inspect parts  that haven't been seen in years.  This mosaic, too, will need to be cleaned before reinstallation.  Here the conservator uses high-pressure steam concentrated through a nozzle to clean the  surface of this mosaic.  An absorbent material called a poultice is applied to the surface of this mosaic.  This is to remove an old discolored resin applied by previous restorers to consolidate  the mortar or to enhance the sheen of the tesserae.  This poultice is a soft gel of synthetic clay and solvents.  It is applied over a barrier layer of tissue and covered with a layer of plastic to slow  evaporation, allowing it time to dissolve the resin.  The poultice is left on for several hours before it is removed.  Ultraviolet light is used to assist the conservator in identifying areas where the discolored  resin still remains.  In 1889, the Art Institute made its first purchases of ancient art.  The first president of its board of trustees, Charles L. Hutchinson, and the first director  of the museum, William French, went on a journey to Europe.  And on that journey, William French took with him a very small notebook where he made observations,  he made notations about museums that he had visited, but he also made note of the objects  that he and Hutchinson had purchased.  In the page that's open, you can see the amphora that is on view in this gallery.  You can see here that he noted the height of the amphora and also sketched the scene  where we have the Amazons, in particular the shield right here.  What's useful about this drawing is that you can see that the vase looks completely intact.  So when this vase came to the Art Institute's collection in 1889, it appeared as if it was  intact.  It wasn't until the 1920s when conservators discovered, as with many of the objects that  were in this first purchase, that this vase was made of disparate parts of other vessels.  Here the same amphora in the sketchbook is revealed to be made of fragments.  You can see the metal wires that are used to hold pieces of the foot together, and you  can also see these sharp-edged fragments here, which I believe are pieces from another pot  that have been used to fill in a large area of loss here, and these big sections that  are dark are probably fill material.  On this page, you can see a crater that our conservators have been working with for quite  some time, and like the amphora on this page, it appears completely intact.  The crater was actually missing almost a third of the original body, including most  of the rim.  The vessel had undergone extensive restoration in the past, and with time, these previous  repairs had become unstable.  The crater was therefore fully disassembled and reassembled according to contemporary  conservation practice.  As with all materials used to conserve artworks, the adhesives that are used are reversible.  The structural fills are covered with a synthetic plaster to smooth the surface.  New plaster surfaces are painted with matte colors to distinguish them from the gloss  of the original fragments, whereas previous restorations sought to give the illusion of  a complete work of art.  Plastic film, or latex rubber, can be used to mask off areas of the vessel that will  not be painted.  The crater is placed in a ventilated space, and original areas are protected as the conservator  applies an even coating of paint with an airbrush on the new plaster.  The latex can be removed without any damage to the original areas.  The paints applied to areas of loss are always reversible, so they can easily be removed.  No permanent changes are ever made to a work of art.  Here the conservator transfers a drawing outlining a continuation of the repeated pattern around  the top of the vessel.  This drawing will help guide the conservator in applying paint over the conserved area.  Designs in areas of loss are only recreated when they can be matched to an original source  on the vessel, such as this repeated palmette design.  Some artworks just need a simple polish, such as this Hellenistic silver coin.  A protective coating is applied to the surface.  When the surface is clean, one can better appreciate the details of this small-scale  portrait.  Here the conservator uses a handheld X-ray fluorescence spectrometer to analyze the metal  composition of this bronze sculpture.  This instrument measures characteristic energy emissions of atoms to identify elements in  an object.  The XRF spectrometer instantly produces data on elements in the bronze.  A Roman marble torso is cleaned of accretions, the deposits accumulated in burial, with a  laser.  Because the laser heats the surface of the sculpture, the stone must be kept wet to prevent  damage.  If you look closely, you can see an immediate change as the laser removes the dark accretions.  The laser is calibrated to remove encrustations without affecting the original marble.  The smoke that is coming out, that's pretty much paint getting removed from the surface.  But these are medical lasers.  They are used for tattoo removal, for varicose veins removal, of course with different optics,  but very, very similar.  After months of cleaning and conservation, the artworks are ready to be installed in  the Mary and Michael J. Harris Galleries of Greek, Roman, and Byzantine Art.  The mosaic, once shown high on the wall, will now be displayed at ground level since it  once formed the floor of a home in antiquity.  All right, left to right.  There we go.  Do we need a level?  Conservation plays a vital role in the long-term preservation of these ancient works of art  so that they may be appreciated today and continue to inspire for generations to come.  www.globalonenessproject.org 