 Hi, my name is Matt Bennion, and today we're going to talk about the MyCloud.  The MyCloud is the latest personal cloud storage from WD, and basically it's a 2, 3, or 4 terabyte  hard drive, but unlike most of the traditional USB drives that we produce, you don't connect  this to your computer, you connect this to your home network.  Once you connect the MyCloud to your home network, it's now connected to the internet,  but it's also connected to every device that's connected to your home network, so your smart  TVs, game consoles, all your Macs or PCs, and including your mobile devices.  Now these days, a lot of these new computers and devices have such limited storage inside,  you end up with sort of a digital chaos.  Some photos on this device, some MP3s on that device.  With the MyCloud, you can centralize all your data in one easy to access place, and then  From there, you can enjoy it on any device you want.  The MyCloud is designed to run and stay always on and always connected to the internet.  Inside, we have a fanless design so it stays whisper quiet, and on the back of the MyCloud,  you also find a USB 3 port to either expand your personal cloud or to back it up.  The MyCloud gets connected to your home network using a gigabit ethernet port also located  on the back of the MyCloud.  Once the MyCloud is connected to your home network, you're able to access all the files  and folders stored on this wirelessly, and that also includes backup.  So once you come home, turn on your notebook, open it up, it'll begin backing up wirelessly  and automatically.  If you're on a Mac, the MyCloud's compatible with Time Machine, and if you're on a Windows  computer, we include WD Smartware to back up all your Windows PCs.  When you're out of the home, we have a remote access technology built right in that lets  you connect to the MyCloud from any internet connection anywhere in the world.  If you're on a mobile device, we have mobile applications.  We also have easy-to-use one-click apps to connect you to your MyCloud for Mac as well  as for Windows.  Once you load your music, movies, and photos on the MyCloud, it's now easy to stream that  to any room in the house thanks to the Twonky DLNA server inside.  With the DLNA server, I'm now able to connect all these media files to my smart TV, game  console, or media player such as the WDTV Live media player.  The MyCloud also has apps.  If you've got an iOS or Android device, you can also connect from those using the MyCloud  app or the WD Photos application.  With these applications, you can download, send links to large files, and enjoy all your  content on your mobile device.  Setting up the MyCloud is also very easy.  Once you connect it to your home network and plug power into the wall, it'll guide you  through some setup.  It really takes about three simple questions, first name, last name, and email address,  and you'll be up and running in no time.  If you run out of room on your two, three, or four terabyte MyCloud, getting more space  is easy.  You simply connect a USB drive to the back of the USB 3 port, and you can expand your  personal cloud, or you can back up the content on the MyCloud.  In this video series, we're going to go ahead and look through all the different features  of the MyCloud and try to show you how to do some neat things with it you may not have  intended to do when you bought it.  My name is Matt Benyon.  Thanks for joining me. 