 Pathology is at the center of patient care.  The pathologies are supposed to render a diagnosis.  And this is what it used to be in the past, but now we do more than that.  We are using new tools of artificial intelligence, of molecular tools, of genetics, in order  to produce more than a diagnosis, but a view of the patient.  Our mission is to give each patient a better chance of cure by guiding their diagnosis  and their treatment.  We are one of the largest, if not the largest, academic department of pathology in the United  States.  We represent one of the largest healthcare systems in the East Coast.  I needed to be in a big program that has a large number of cases, so that was very  important to me.  Also, a program that appreciates diversity, which attracted me the most.  The Mount Sinai Residency Program in Clinical Pathology provides top-notch training in an  innovative environment within a large academic hospital.  Our laboratories provide cutting-edge diagnostics and medical care to a diverse population across  New York City, the surrounding areas, and to patients from across the world.  The one great thing about Mount Sinai is that we have a plethora of cases.  You will have normal cases, like everyday cases, and also you will have very exotic  cases like leishmaniasis, histoplasmosis, like very, very exotic diseases, and you can  study them.  Our program focuses on training residents to have the technical expertise and medical  knowledge necessary to be the laboratory leaders of tomorrow.  Our program is just awesome.  The first year in our program is completely anatomical pathology, so you will spend one  month on every anatomical pathology subspecialty, for example, GI, breast, GYN.  The second year is completely clinical pathology.  Every month you spend on different rotations, like hematology, chemistry, blood bank, cytogenomics,  molecular.  Residents rotate through all of our labs, from microbiology to transfusion medicine  to the molecular labs, where they participate in all laboratory activities, from test interpretation,  assay development to validation, quality practices, laboratory administration, and patient care  and apheresis.  In your third and fourth year, you hone in on your career path, and so you get to go  into rotation more focused on your career.  Myself, I'm a clinical pathologist.  I'm more focused on laboratory medicine, such as transfusion medicine.  We're not content with just being state-of-the-art.  The department is committed to fundamentally changing how pathology is practiced by developing  and implementing new tools and approaches in pathology.  We were the first center in New York to offer next-gen sequencing as an approved clinical  test, and we never stopped.  Our innovations division creates AI-enhanced tools which will result in more accurate and  clinically meaningful information for patient care.  Milestone is excellent at being able to understand that it's not a one-size-fit-all here.  This program definitely set me up for success.  They know me.  They know my personality.  They are able to say, okay, based on who I am, they put me on a certain path.  If you're looking for a program where you will never feel alone, you will feel supported,  you will have an exceptional training, this is the right place for you.  We feel that you are the future.  This is our passion, to teach and to prepare the next generation of pathologists to be  better than us and to be able to comprehend better than us what we have not been able  to solve.  So welcome to the program. 