 Okay, so here we have an equilateral triangle where all the sides measure 4 centimeters.  Now we also know for an equilateral triangle all the angles measure 60 degrees.  And they're asking us to find the area.  Alright, so for the area I know the formula is equal to 1 half base times height, right?  The formula for the area of a triangle, 1 half base times height.  So here I already know the base, so this is equal to 1 half.  Now the base is 4 centimeters, but I don't know what the height is, right?  So I need to figure out the height of this triangle.  So to do that, what I'm going to do is look at the peak here and drop in altitude.  And so when I construct an altitude, this will be a right angle.  Not drawn to scale, it's a little bit off.  But I'm going to look at this right triangle here on this side where the base of that right  triangle is actually 2 centimeters.  Okay so there's a number of ways to find the height here.  We can use trigonometry or in this case I think we can just use regular Pythagorean  Theorem.  Okay, so I know for this green triangle I can say leg squared plus leg squared equals  the hypotenuse squared.  So in this case, 8 squared plus 2 squared equals 4 squared, right?  8 squared, 2, and a 4.  4 is the hypotenuse.  And that gives me 8 squared plus 4 equals 16.  Subtracting 4, 8 squared equals 12.  And then extracting the square root, taking the square root of both sides, don't forget  the plus or minus, we get H equals, well since it's geometry I'm going to use plus, the square  root of 12.  Now 12 is 4 times 3.  And so the exact value here would be, for the height, 2 square root of 3 centimeters.  So with that I can go back to the original problem where I was actually calculating the  area and I can replace the height there with 2 square root of 3 centimeters.  Alright, 1 half base times height and then we can do the work.  So 1 half times 4 is 2 times the 2 square root of 3 and then centimeters times centimeters  is centimeters squared.  Or 4 square root of 3 centimeters squared.  So that's the exact answer.  And we can actually do that on a calculator if it wanted the approximate answer.  On a calculator I'm just going to type in 4 square root of 3 and hit the approximate  button and I get about 6.9 centimeters squared and that's going to be my approximate answer.  And there you have it, the area of an equilateral triangle.  For the next example here in section 1.5 I want to do number 29.  So here it says, an observer stands at the edge of a sinkhole and looks to the bottom.  If the angle of depression to the bottom of the hole is 82 degrees and the hole is  5 meters wide, how deep is the hole?  Okay so we have to go and understand what the angle of depression is.  So let's go back up and see here that in the textbook the angle of elevation is the angle  that an object makes with the horizontal.  So from the horizontal looking up, that's an angle of elevation, and if I was up here  at the balloon and looking out at the horizontal, the angle looking down from the horizontal  is the angle of depression.  Okay so let's try to draw a picture and then figure out the height of the sinkhole.  Okay now often with these problems it's helpful to draw a picture.  So we have a sinkhole and I don't know, it looks something like this.  We have a person, an observer, up here looking down.  So the problem said the line of sight to the bottom of the hole had an angle of depression  of 82 degrees.  So if the observer is looking down here to the bottom, the angle of depression is the  angle with the horizontal, so that's 82 degrees right there.  Now it also said that the hole measures 5 meters in length there.  Alright so this is sort of the picture, this is the given information.  Let's assume this is a right angle right here, and we can apply our knowledge of trigonometry  on this particular right triangle, where this is say the height.  So once we got an okay picture here, I know we have two parallel lines here, so this is  one of those alternate interior angles, so I know this is going to be 82 degrees.  So looking at this illustration, I need to find H, and H is the side opposite, and I'm  given the side adjacent.  So I need to think, you know, which trig function associates opposite with adjacent?  Well after some thought, that's tangent right?  So tangent of any particular angle is defined to be opposite over adjacent.  So in this particular case, I can say tangent of 82, tangent of 82 degrees is equal to H  over 5.  Okay, and then cross multiplying 5 times tangent of 82 degrees equals the H, and then I can  just do that on a calculator.  So 5, let me clear that out, 5 tangent of 82 degrees, make sure you're in degree mode,  and then enter.  And so I'm just going to round that off to one decimal place, let's say that's approximately,  what is that, 35.6, and we need units here, so the units were given in meters, so that  would be the height of the sinkhole is approximately 35.6 meters.  The next problem I want to do here is number 55 in our textbook, section 1.5.  It says a ship traveled 15 kilometers on a bearing of north 50 degrees west, and then  dropped anchor.  How far north and how far west did the ship travel?  Okay so I notice here it gives a bearing, so we need to first understand what bearing  is.  Okay so here's a good picture in the textbook, now bearing is a measure of direction.  Bearings always start from the north-south line, they have an angle, and then they end  on the west-east line.  So here we have a compass, north is up, south is down, left is west, and right is east.  So right here you're looking at north 60 degrees east, so you start 60 degrees west.  So you start on north, because that comes first, and then you mark out 60 degrees in  the westerly direction, and that's the direction, north 60 degrees west.  Here's north 45 degrees east, starting at north, marking out 45 degrees east, that's  that direction.  If s comes first, you've got to start on the south line, mark out the 20 degrees in the  westerly direction, and that's south 20 degrees west.  And then finally, south 75 degrees east, since s comes first, you start on the south line,  mark 75 degrees in the easterly direction.  So those are directions.  Now let's go back to our problem.  Okay so now that we know what bearing is, let's go ahead and try to draw a nice picture  for this, and then solve the problem.  Okay now it gave us a bearing of north 50 degrees west, and it said the boat traveled  for 15 kilometers.  Alright so when working with bearing problems, try to make a nice big picture, give yourself  lots of space.  When you write a compass in front of yourself, north is usually up, south is down, west is  to the left, east is to the right, and it kind of spells we, that's how I remember it.  Now the bearing here says north 50 degrees west, so we want to start from the north,  and then mark out 50 degrees in the westerly direction.  So there's the bearing, north 50 degrees west, and green.  Now the boat is here, and it dropped anchor, so there's my boat.  The question wanted me to find how far north and how far south did it go, so this is the  distance north, I'm sorry, and how far west, and this is the distance west.  So I'll call this distance n, that distance w, and that of course makes a right triangle,  and so from here we can use right triangle trig.  So I also know the distance on that bearing is 15 kilometers.  So there's the picture, that's the given information, we need to find n and w.  So let's go for w, the distance west first.  So I look at that, and I see that it's the side opposite of the given 50 degrees, and  then the hypotenuse is 15.  So opposite over hypotenuse, what comes to mind?  Well sine, right?  Sine of theta is defined to be opposite over hypotenuse.  So for this particular picture I can write sine of 50 degrees equals w over, right, the  west direction, over 15, right, w over 15.  Okay, cross multiplying I get 15 sine of 50 degrees equals the w, and so on a calculator  all I have to do is type in 15 sine of 50.  So make sure you're in degree mode, and I get 15 sine of 50, and that's 11, about 11.5,  and the units here are in kilometers, so I would put kilometers, right, that's the distance  west.  Okay, now let's look for n.  To figure out n I can use trig, n is the side adjacent, and I have the hypotenuse, and so  for that I know cosine of theta is defined to be adjacent over hypotenuse.  So in this particular case cosine of 50 degrees equals, right, the side adjacent is n, so  n over 15, and then cross multiplying, 15 cosine of 50 is equal to the n, or in other  words n is approximately, our answer here, 15 cosine of 50, approximately 9.6 kilometers.  So that's how far north the boat went, and then here's how far the boat went in westerly  direction, so we found those values.  Now the next one I want to do is number 61 in the textbook, I'm in section 105 again.  This one says a ship leaves the marina and sails on a bearing of north 42 degrees east  for 12 miles.  Then it turns and sails 10 more miles in the direction of south 48 degrees east.  How far did the ship sail, and what is the bearing from the marina?  Okay this one has two directions, right, we have north 42 degrees east for 12 miles, and  then turning we get on a bearing here south 48 degrees east.  Let's try to draw a picture.  Okay now in the problem it gave us two bearings, right, and so north 42 degrees east was the  first leg of the trip for 12 miles.  When making these illustrations you want to make them big, okay, don't squish yourself  in, nice and big illustrations, problem becomes like a little bit easier.  When you draw on a compass in front of yourself, typically we write north as up and south as  down, okay, west is left and east is right, I like to remember that as we.  Alright so there's my compass, and the first direction here is north 42 degrees east, so  from the north line I need to mark out 42 degrees in the easterly direction, and so  this is the easterly direction, so here's the 42 degrees that's given, and I went, the  boat or whatever went 12 miles, right, and so he's there now, he's right here, right,  that's the first leg of the trip, and then he turned on bearing south 48 degrees east.  Okay so what we want to do is put in another compass where he's at at that point, north  south west and east, and mark out from there south 48 degrees east, right, so I start at  the south line, marking out 48 degrees, it's about like that, he went 10 miles, right here's  48 degrees, and this is 10 miles, alright, so I got a little squished, 48 degrees right  there, and so now the boat is right here, okay, so the question is how far and on what  bearing from the marina is the boat, and so what I'm actually looking for is this distance  from the marina, right, remember the marina is where we started, okay so that should be  pretty straightforward to find this distance right here, let's call it x, and that's how  far he is away from the marina. Awesome, so there's a nice picture with my two bearings.  Alright, now from there we need to solve this, so I need this angle right here, and so that  angle is opposite interior angles right there, so this 42 degrees is going to be the same  as that, right, 42 degrees, and then looking at this, 42 degrees and 48 degrees, that adds  up to 90 degrees, so for this triangle right here, the right angle is right there, alright,  so this is a right triangle. Knowing that it's a right triangle, I can then apply the  Pythagorean Theorem to find x, because x is the side opposite of the right triangle, x  is the hypotenuse, so the hypotenuse equals leg squared plus leg squared, right, so 10  squared plus 12 squared, right, leg squared plus leg squared is the hypotenuse. In other  words, x squared equals 100 plus 144, x squared equals 244, and so x equals the square root  of 244. Now, what is that, 244, I think, let's see, yeah, so that's 61 times 4, so that's  4 times 61, and so x is equal to 2 square root of 61 miles. I don't know, I should probably  get a decimal equivalent to that. I can just do square root of 244 if I want. So doing  2 square root of 61, okay, so I have to, the approximate button, and I get about 15.6 miles,  so that's the distance, right, so that's going to be this value, right here, 15.6 miles,  approximately. Okay, so that's part one of the problem. Now, it also wanted us to find  the bearing from the marina, so to find that, I need to look at this red arrow, okay, that  red arrow is the actual direction you need to go from the marina to catch up to the boat.  Okay, so the bearing there has to start from the north, and it's going to require this  angle here, theta. So I can see that bearing that I want is north theta degrees east, right,  that's the bearing to the boat. So I need to figure out that theta right there from  the north line. Okay, so I already know part of it, right, part of it is 42 degrees, and  I think I can use trig to find this angle, let's call it alpha, and so the angle that  I'm after would be 42 degrees plus alpha, right, that's my bearing angle that I need.  So if I can find alpha, I can get the bearing to the boat. Okay, so that's the goal, we're  after alpha. Now, the given information looks like it was a side opposite and a side adjacent,  this is a right triangle, so I can use right triangle trig. So opposite over adjacent again,  I'm going to use tangent, so I can write, yeah, so I can write tangent of that alpha  is equal to opposite over adjacent, so 10 over 12, and I'm after the angle, so I have  to use tangent inverse of 10 over 12, which reduces, right, so that would be tangent inverse  of 5 6ths, and so doing that on a calculator, we need to do that, so tangent inverse of  5 6ths, and that comes out to 39.8 degrees, now that's not the answer, 39.8 degrees is  only part of the bearing, right, so it's 42, remember, we're after theta, so 42 plus that  alpha, so 42 degrees plus the 39.8 degrees, and so the theta that I'm after is approximately  equal to 81.8 degrees. Okay, so once I know that angle, I can come back and I can finish  off the bearing here, so the bearing to get to the boat, that red bearing would be, that  red arrow would have bearing north, 81.8 degrees east, right, so that's the answer  for part B, that's the bearing that you'd have to take to catch up to the boat. Okay,  so these are kind of tricky, they take a lot of practice, the key is drawing a good picture. 