 Do you ever feel at times that you lose touch with your passion, your ambition, and your drive to go after your art?  Maybe you find you're lacking inspiration to show up and do the work that needs to be done.  If that ever happens for you, then I want to share with you something that I found extremely useful to be able to blast through that roadblock.  I recently published a video on powerful techniques that you can use when you're feeling overwhelmed.  One of those techniques, which comes from Will Smith's autobiography, Will, is the concept of laying one brick.  It involves taking a big, overwhelming-feeling project and narrowing the focus down into one single bite-sized achievable task, laying one brick.  While that is an incredibly powerful technique, the inverse of that is also an incredibly powerful technique.  And there's another book that I love. It's by Simon Sinek, and it's about the power of communicating your why.  This was also a subject of his TED Talk.  He, in the book, uses an example of two bricklayers that are building on a huge project.  And one of the bricklayers is communicating what it is that he does.  And he says, I am a bricklayer. I show up every day and I lay bricks. That's what I do.  Then another bricklayer is used in the example. And when asked what he does, what he's up to, he says, I'm building a cathedral.  So there's a mindset difference between those two people that could dramatically affect their sense of ambition and drive, fulfillment and passion.  If the one person is just saying, what I'm doing is laying bricks, there isn't a lot of overarching meaning to that.  There isn't an overarching, transcendent why that's driving that person.  Whereas the second bricklayer, the one who's viewing him or herself as building a cathedral, that is a meaningful and powerful project.  So if you find yourself feeling disconnected, even at moments, because we often weave in and out of these feelings.  But if you're going through a dip and you find yourself disconnected from your sense of passion and drive, or you're feeling a sense of procrastination,  or if you're having difficulty showing up and doing the work and doing what needs to be done, if you're stuck in some way, is another way to put it.  If you're just stuck with your art, then this is a great one to give a whirl.  If you instead zoom way out from the granular bite-sized stuff and say, what is the reason why I started doing this?  Where am I going with this? What's my destination?  Where in my wildest dreams and visions will I be when I become successful in this pursuit?  And that's your why. That's what Simon Sinek is talking about in his book and in his TED talk.  And if you connect with that and hold that in your mind when you're working,  that can provide the sense of motivation that will get you to show up and continue beating on your craft and doing the day-in, day-out work  that is necessary to achieve and realize your grander vision.  That can be easier said than done, because this mindset shift, the ability to zoom out and take that broader perspective,  the ability to hold your why really close to yourself and keep that in focus while you're pursuing your craft,  takes the ability of your mind to focus and create that shift.  It takes mind training.  And I talked in my last video about some ways of engaging in mind training so that when it comes time to do this,  that you have the capacity to be able to do that.  What I recommended was that on a regular basis, you're integrating mind training in the same way that as musicians we do ear training.  In the same way, to be fit and capable individuals, we do physical training for our bodies.  We go to the gym or we do yoga or we run or we bike or we hike to be able to keep our physical body strong.  And I implore you, as you begin down this journey of applying these techniques,  to also have in your repertoire and to be regularly engaging in some form of mind training.  Lots of ways to do that.  There are concentration exercises.  It could be mindful movement like yoga or tai chi.  Could be breathing exercises.  Maybe Wim Hof is a good place to start.  And it could be more traditional forms of meditation.  There's lots of ways to engage in mind training.  And I would highly encourage you to begin to foray into that realm.  Begin to build some capacity in that area.  You will feel so much more capable and powerful when it comes time to apply these techniques.  Thanks so much for connecting and watching this video.  I'll catch you real soon. Much love. 