 Hi, thanks for taking the time to watch this video. It's a short, sharp video about psychosocial  in data gathering as part of the CSA exam. Now, there's a lot of stuff out there about  psychosocial, when to do it, how to do it, what's the right way to do it, and I'm trying  to put all that into a short, sharp, punchy video to allow you guys to take your preparation  that little bit further with a little bit more clarity so that you can use it to the  best of your advantage. Now, I'm Amin Arora. I'm a GP and a TPD based in Birmingham. I've  done the exam myself. I know how stressful it is. I want to make sure that you get the  most out of these videos and enabling you to take your preparation forward and get that  bit as good as you can.  So, firstly, why do psychosocial? Now, as a GP, obviously we're not just seeing patients  and doing it with a single treatment, with a single diagnosis and a single symptom. We're  looking at things in a multifactorial way and using your psychosocial questions is a  great way to try and find the link between what's going on in the medicine and something  out there that we don't know too much about at this point. So, either something in this  patient's life is impacting on their symptom or diagnosis or condition, or their condition  or their symptom or diagnosis is somehow impacting on their life. It's our job to try and dig  out that route, to try and make that link so that when we manage this symptom, condition  or diagnosis, we're using things in this patient's life and we're looking at things in a holistic,  more rounded point of view. One of the great ways of making things is a shared management  plan and we'll come on to how to make that happen in a short while. But that's generally  why we do it and that's why we want to get it right because it's such a huge part of  data gathering in this exam, but also as GPs in general.  So, what kind of things are in our psychosocial type of history then? Well, we all think of  the common stuff, don't we? Home life, work life, smoking, alcohol. Those are traditional  ones that we all think about in all patients. Now, there's a couple of others that I tend  to think about and just run through your mind and bring out if you think it's relevant to  this patient. So, when you think about home life, think about relationships. When you  think about work life, think about finances. When you think about smoking and alcohol,  think about should I ask drugs in this particular case. Think about driving. Think about exercise.  Think about diet. There's lots of things that go on in people's lives that actually we can  be using, not only just to get the information, but also to use it to make that plan that  we do in the second half a lot more tailored, a lot more specific, and a lot more individualized  to that patient sitting in front of you.  Now, for example, things like driving. A couple of these things, people think, well, why ask  these things? Well, we tend to think about certain things in certain types of presentations.  So, driving, for example, we may think about in diabetes. Driving, we may think about in  epilepsy. But actually, driving is something that people do day in, day out. Most people  in this country do drive. And there could be a link between some of their symptoms and  what's going on with their driving. So, for example, if someone's got a chronic tennis  elbow, someone's got really bad knee arthritis, you may find that driving's actually really  impacted and they can't get to work and they're struggling, and there could be a link there.  If you have someone who has obesity or hypertension or diabetes even, and you're doing the usual  type of management things, lose weight, exercise, gym, all that kind of stuff, and the patient's  sitting there telling you, look, doc, I work 12 hours a day. I can't got time to go to  the gym. Where am I going to do my exercise? Use the fact that you know their drive to  work, for example, to your advantage. Mrs. Smith, you mentioned that you drive to work  every day, and you mentioned it's quite a long drive. How about on a couple of days,  maybe park a mile away and walk the rest of the way? That way, you can get your exercise  and you don't have to go to the gym and you can still do your work in your normal way.  So, you can sometimes make these things work for you. And the idea is that you want to  be using some of these things in their life that you've picked up and worked hard for  in the first half and tailor it to them in the second half. And again, we'll come onto  that in a little while, but it's just a good example there of how psychosocial is not just  work life, home life, smoking and alcohol. It's actually all-encompassing, and there's  a lot more digging that you can do given the right opportunity.  One of the key things that you see with psychosocial questions is sometimes they just appear to  come out of the blue randomly. There's no real reason or link as to why this doctor  has just asked this question. So, you may be doing some red flag questions, for example,  and suddenly home life springs into your mind, or smoking, alcohol springs into your  mind, and before you know it, you've asked the question. You know, Mrs. Smith, who's  at home with you? Or Mr. Jones, what do you do for a job? You know, maybe later on in  the case, you may just think about alcohol. Mrs. Smith, do you drink? Do you smoke?  Now, these are not wrong questions. You need to get this information, but like so many  things in this exam, it's not what you ask, it's how you ask it that's key. And often  just throwing these questions out of the blue where the patient has no idea where they've  come from, the people who are watching you have no idea where they've come from, can  look a little bit haphazard and a bit odd. So, one thing that's really good is putting  a signpost in before you do your psychosocial questions. We're very good at putting signposts  in for things like red flags. It's quite natural to us. But for psychosocial, we don't do it  very often. A couple of reasons for doing signposts. Number one, you're telling the  patient that this is what you're about to do here, so they understand you're about to  ask some questions about psychosocial. And secondly, you're giving yourself a heads up.  You're letting yourself know that this is my time where I've decided I'm going to do  my psychosocial questions and I'm going to try and make sure I get them all done together  so it looks a little bit more reasonable. So, for example, Mrs. Smith, you know, we've  not met each other before. I'm just going to ask you a few questions about you and your  lifestyle. Sometimes they can affect headaches. Mr. Jones, I've met you before. I'm just going  to ask you a few questions about you and your lifestyle. Sometimes they can affect the bowels.  So try and put a signpost in and link it to the symptom that comes. It just helps them  to understand why you're doing it.  The second thing that you can do is sometimes things like smoking and alcohol can also sound  very random. Even if you've done it with a bit of a signpost, they don't quite understand  why you're asking about smoking and alcohol for this particular problem. Is it just because  it's on the list? Are you doing a health check? I'm not here for that. So you've got to try  and link those with the symptom as well if you decide to do it.  So, for example, that patient with a headache, you know, Mrs. Smith, might seem a bit of  a couple of odd questions, but sometimes things like smoking and alcohol can influence headache.  Can I check if you do any of those?  Someone comes in with depression, anxiety, low mood. Don't just say, do you smoke, do  you drink? Link it to the problem.  Mr. Smith might seem a little bit odd, but sometimes when people feel low or anxious  or particularly worried about something, they can turn to things they think may help, things  like smoking and alcohol. Can I check if you do any of those?  You get a patient coming with chronic knee arthritis, many years, long-term problem.  Smoking and alcohol can seem very odd if it's just done as a tick box exercise. But Mr.  Smith, you know, you've mentioned you've had a lot of pain in your knee for many years  now. It's mostly a bit of an odd question, but sometimes when people have a lot of pain  for a while, they turn to other things other than painkillers that sometimes help, things  like smoking and alcohol. Can I check if you do any of those things?  So if you do decide to do certain questions in psychosocial, firstly, put a signpost that  you're about to do this so they understand that it's coming. And secondly, when you do  these questions, link it to the symptom or the problem that they come in with, because  then it leaves no doubt that you understand as a GP why I need to ask these questions.  I'm not just doing it because the book told me or the course told me or that's why I know  I'm supposed to do.  Now, one of the most important things about psychosocial is don't just get the information  and leave it. You know, so often people will do a really good psychosocial history. They'll  get lots of pertinent information. They'll get lots of things that are actually really  relevant to the case. And it comes to the second half and it's just vanished. It's just  gone. We don't bring it back. It's not mentioned again unless the patient brings it back.  Now, you turn around and say, well, what was the point? What was the point of asking all  of that stuff if we're just going to leave it to the wayside? So a classic example, you  know, you've worked hard in the first half to find out that this guy who's at work is  struggling with his back pain, is causing him to miss work, is really struggling, and  he doesn't know what to do. And it's a big worry for him. It's a big issue for him.  Yeah, when we come around to the second half, what do we do? A generic back pain management  talk about stretching, gels, that kind of stuff, which is fine. But we haven't mentioned  that one of the big things that he's actually come to talk to you about, which is work.  So you've done the hard work, not got the rewards for it.  Another example, you get a new diabetic and you've worked hard in the first half. You've  got a lot of information from this lady and you've worked out that her diet's not great.  She's eating a lot of stuff that's probably impacting her diabetes, that's probably making  it worse. However, what happens in the second half? We think new diabetes, what do the guidelines  say? What are we supposed to talk about? And we mentioned diet, but it's kind of just  in the list of all the other stuff that you talk to everyone about with diabetes, so exercise,  weight loss, diet, and all that kind of stuff. But it's just kind of tagged along and you  haven't shown or demonstrated that the information that I got, I'm using to tailor for this patient.  So you've got to get used to bringing things back from the first half. So you'd say things  like, Mr. Jones, you mentioned earlier that work was a little bit of a struggle, wasn't  it? Now, I want to have a chat with you about that, see what we can do. Maybe we can help.  Mrs. Smith, you mentioned earlier that your diet's perhaps not the greatest. And I wonder  if you know about the links between diet and diabetes. Maybe there's a little bit of a chat  we can have there as to what's good, perhaps what's not so good. Mr. Smith, you mentioned  that you have been struggling with your driving earlier. You talked about that earlier on,  implement driving into their daily life to get some exercise in.  Mr. Smith, you mentioned that there was some troubles going on at home and there's a few  relationship problems with your wife. Now, I'm happy to have a chat and see if I can offer  you anything there, if that's something that you'd like to take further.  So don't forget to bring these things back, use the things that you worked hard for in  the first half, and make sure that the management plan is not just a generic one, but actually  you're using that information continuously that you've got in the first half to make  that plan tailored, make it a shared plan. Often, we have come up with all sorts of tactics  to make things shared, to give options and that kind of thing. But actually, are we using  the stuff that we're actually working hard for in the first half? Sometimes we don't.  It's really important to use phrases like, you mentioned this earlier, now you thought  about this earlier on and start bringing them back because that's how you're using stuff  like psychosocial in the second half and making it work as hard as you can for you.  So guys, as you can see, psychosocial is not just about asking those same three or four  questions each and every time, each and every case. There's a few more things to think about  than that. Firstly, it's about getting the right questions, the relevant questions that  you need to choose depending on the patient sitting in front of you. Secondly, it's all  about showing you understand why you're asking those questions. Why as a GP, it's important  to get that information out and how you're going to use it later on to help the patient.  And thirdly, it's about bringing those things back in the second half to enable you to make  that management plan more shared, more options-based and more tailored to the patient.  Hopefully it's been useful. Hopefully you've picked up some key things that you can take  forward in your own preparation. If there are any other areas you want me to create videos  for in GP training, please drop me a line. My email details, my tweet details are down below.  Otherwise, if you are taking the exam in the near future, good luck. I'm sure you'll be fine  and hopefully I'll see you guys again soon. 