 So, I know it's been a while, but today is a bit of a different video.  Right now, I'm out of town, so you'll notice that there's a bit of a change in the normal  studio setup, but we'll be back in the normal one come the new year.  Anyways, you guys have some questions over on Twitter and Instagram, and I've kind of  got some answers.  Starting from the top, the first question comes from Yeti Machete, and he asks, what  is your dream phone?  I actually think it's a combination of the OnePlus 7 Pro and the iPhone 11 Pro Max.  Basically, I want an iPhone with a 90Hz display, a rectangular design like the iPhone 5, which  was my personal favorite, and a bezel-less display.  If rumors are correct, then the iPhone 12 Pro Max, I really holy don't need that, should  be that phone, so that would basically be my dream phone.  The next question comes from Trusted Texan, do you want to pursue YouTube as a career  or online film production?  To be honest, I think a little bit of both.  While initially YouTube is what got me into the film industry in the first place, I really  don't see myself only tied down to YouTube, but apart from doing freelance right now,  I don't know what I'll be doing in the future.  How's your experience been with Android?  So far so good, I've always liked both platforms, but I've had a tendency to want to try out  each.  When I was younger, I would rotate each year on which system I was using, buy an iPhone,  then sell it and get an Android, and it continues the cycle.  Right now, the most part, I'm liking it, but I'm definitely feeling the callback to  iOS as I've been using Android for over 6 months.  There's just something about the simplicity of having an ecosystem work so well.  So yeah, I like Android, especially the customization, but I think I'll be switching back to iOS  soon.  What is the worst mistake you've made with regards to YouTube?  You know, this is a little tough to answer because I've made a ton of mistakes as a creator,  but I think one of the biggest ones was assuming that my videos would just take off.  In order to understand this, we should back up a bit.  I've been making videos on YouTube for just over 3 years, and when I first started, I  just assumed I would post, and a year later, I would have hundreds of thousands of subscribers,  and that was a big oversight.  At first, I didn't realize the importance of uploading constantly and making sure that  I invested in my community.  In fact, if you look back at some of my older content, you'll notice there's hardly any  views or comments or engagement at all, and that's because of two things.  One, I didn't know how to promote my content, and two, I didn't have anyone to promote it  to.  So, to answer your question, I think the biggest mistake was assuming that I would just make  it big on YouTube without putting any effort in and assuming the community would just find  me.  Actually, it's the opposite.  You have to go out and find your community, and that's when you're going to find success.  JD asks, you recently put out your first short film.  How was the experience, and what did you learn from it, and where do you see your career  going after?  Honestly, the whole experience was awesome.  I really enjoyed the creative process of coming up with an idea and then setting it in motion.  It was definitely and still is stressful at times, but overall, I loved the experience.  What did I learn?  Well, I think the biggest thing that I learned is that preparation is everything.  I definitely did not prepare as much as I should, and this includes things like a shot  list and getting the right lighting and making sure that your subject looks good on camera.  So a lot of it was done on the run, and while this can be good at times for certain types  of documentaries, for me, it definitely should have been thought through more.  In terms of career, like I said earlier, I'm not totally sure.  I definitely still want to pursue YouTube, but not solely.  I think I would like to DP on some larger shoots and would love to work for a production  company.  Eventually, I want to start my own.  At least, that's what I think I want to do right now.  What are some goals you have for 2019?  Channel, career, etc.  To be honest, I'm hoping to hit 20,000 subscribers by the next year.  I would love to get some sponsorships with larger companies and just overall grow the  channel.  I'm also toying with the idea of changing the name Technominute to my full name, Luke  Pollock, and focusing less on tech and more on filmmaking because that's what I'm super  passionate about.  Now, don't get me wrong, still expect to see tech on this channel, but I think come 2020,  there's going to be a slight shift in the content.  I would also like to finally get around to collaborating with some larger creators, especially  in the film community.  What got you into content creation?  Now, this is a question I get actually asked quite a few times, but what really got me  into content creation and now film was watching tech videos as a teenager.  I remember watching people like John Rettinger from TechnoBuffalo at the time, Michael Fisher  from Pocketnow, Marquez from MKBHD, and Jonathan Morrison.  Each time I watched one of those videos, I thought to myself, I could make that.  Now, that was super naive of me, but when I first started, I had no idea the amount  of time and effort that creating takes, but that didn't discourage me.  And part of the reason I'm still pursuing film as some sort of career is because I was  inspired by those guys, by the dudes making tech videos in their dorm or garage, and if  it wasn't for them, I don't know what I would be doing now.  Lastly, what is your favorite part of the creative process coming up with the idea,  filming, editing, etc?  I think my favorite part of the process is definitely editing.  I find that that's when I'm the most creative, and it's definitely where I find the most  enjoyment.  Now, don't get me wrong, I still love shooting video, but there's a certain level of stress  associated when you're just filming, and that's totally removed when you can just sit down  and edit.  The idea work is cool too, but I find my videos truly come to life when I found a song and  I can just sit down and start editing.  All right, well, that's going to wrap it up for this video.  Again, thank you for all of your questions.  Sorry for the long pause in the content.  It's been a pretty crazy couple of months with school and freelance, but expect to see  some more content in 2020, especially after I graduate in May.  Also, if anyone wants to help with the new motion graphic for the intro in the new year,  be sure to hit me up on socials.  But other than that, until next time, peace. 