 Hmm. Lesson plans. They're so important, aren't they, for a well-prepared and smooth-running lesson.  I'm going to share with you today not only what a perfect lesson plan looks like,  but we're going to go a bit deeper together, a different approach to planning.  Want to find out more? Let's go.  I'm Deidre Nicholas from Palmtree Teaching TV, teacher, speaker and your personal English language coach.  So, the perfect lesson. You'll be a lot closer to having a perfect lesson with a plan.  Of course, there are lots of ways of creating lesson plans.  I've known teachers who've written a whole lesson plan on a little scrap of paper,  and others who've made much more complicated ones as well.  I've seen lesson plans that are about 35 pages long, but I'm not suggesting you do that for every lesson.  Now, I know that you know how to create a great lesson plan,  but before we go on to the more advanced stuff, let's just have a very quick look at planning.  Firstly, of course, make sure you have a good lesson plan template that you enjoy working with.  Everyone varies, so you just choose one for yourself.  A great way of planning your lesson is to think of your lesson as having a great meal in a restaurant.  People come to the restaurant because they're hungry, and that's just like your students for English.  So, you offer them a great, satisfying meal with a starter, a main course, a dessert,  and if they're really lucky, cheese and biscuits and coffee too.  So, your starter in your meal is your warmer to get your students engaged in the lesson,  get them moving around, and get the brain cells starting to work in English.  And then, of course, the main meal or the main body of the lesson.  It may be a PPP lesson where you present the new material and then you get your students to produce it  and practice it in a controlled, followed by a free way, which is your dessert.  You could, of course, use a different lesson plan model.  It doesn't have to be presentation, production, and practice. It's entirely up to you.  And then, of course, the very best meals and your lessons have a little something to finish with,  which is cheese and biscuits and coffee.  And in your case, it's your rounding up of what the lesson has contained, your plenary.  So, the idea is that in the same way that people leave a restaurant full, happy, and satisfied,  but wanting to come back again because it was so good,  this is the same as your students will feel after your lesson.  OK. So far, so good.  But let's look beyond the mechanics of the lesson planning and let's look at it in a more advanced way.  Oh, before I go on, don't forget to hit the subscribe button and the bell  so you don't miss out on any of my videos and lessons.  Or, if you'd like to have me as your personal language coach  or probably to give you ideas as a teacher, give you some fresh new ideas,  then just email me on the email below.  And I've put it in the link under this video.  So, what are you trying to achieve in this lesson?  And how are you going to do that?  Here's some points to consider when you're planning your lesson.  One, make sure your activities that you plan have a logical link.  Be clear and make your students clear about what the main topic of the lesson is.  If you link the activities in a logical way,  they will follow you through the lesson and learn with you.  Number two, ask yourself, how can I arouse their interest?  Involve your students as soon as the class starts.  You could show them a picture, a photo, or an object  connected with the topic of the lesson, of course.  Get them interested. Get them asking questions.  Make sure that you include plenty of opportunities  for your students to practice using the target language in free practice.  Because, after all, that's what they're going to need in real life.  Number three, pace.  Now, this is linked as well to engaging your students.  Vary the pace of your lesson and your activities.  So, if you have a calm, quiet activity,  like, for example, reading and then comprehension questions,  make the next activity really lively.  Maybe, for example, a run-to-the-board activity  or the jumping game to give feedback.  Number four, how can you challenge your students?  Every student of every level needs to be challenged.  If not, they lose motivation and there will be very little learning.  Build on what they already know and stretch them.  Number five, make sure that every student  can access something in the lesson.  Now, what I mean by this is,  while you challenge the more able students,  don't let the less able students feel left out.  Make sure that you've also got materials and activities  in your plan that the less able people can do as well.  Of course, if they start to feel left out,  they lose motivation and that, of course,  is where you start to get behavioural issues.  Number six, lesson objectives.  When you plan, think about why those students  are doing those particular activities that you've planned.  How do these activities contribute  to the objective of the lesson?  If they don't, get rid of them.  Number seven, explain clearly.  Think about how you're going to explain each activity.  Explanations should be short,  clear, visual and simple.  I've seen trainee teachers  explain the activities in more complicated language  than the actual activity and this has left  the students a bit confused.  Check understanding by getting a student to demonstrate too.  Eight, plan your board work.  Make sure that your board work  and your writing are clear and big enough.  You can make a diagram before the lesson  of how you're going to plan out the board.  Number nine, what vocabulary do your students need  to complete all the tasks in your lesson?  So prepare before the lesson  all the vocabulary that your students will need  to complete all the tasks and all the activities effectively.  So, if they need more,  how are you going to present that in an engaging way?  Don't just give them a list.  So finally, number ten, plan for problems.  Now, I know this is a difficult one  but you can certainly plan for some problems.  For example, if you're not sure if an activity will work,  think about how you can solve this problem.  Perhaps it's too hard, too complicated.  Now, if you can't solve the problem, don't do it.  Or maybe try it out on another group first.  Okay, so now you're all set for a fabulous lesson.  Don't forget to reflect afterwards, of course.  If something went particularly well, make a note of it.  Use it again.  Now, I've got lots of other videos on my channel, all made for teachers.  So have a look at those. I'll put the links below this video.  I hope that you've really enjoyed this video.  Don't forget to like and comment  and share some of this material with your friends and colleagues as well.  And also subscribe to this amazing channel.  So enjoy your English teaching  and I'll see you next time. Bye! 