 Oh  This is my law school, this is terrible y'all it's just actually awful  Oh the game in trouble started out small night Tammy double. Yeah, you can drip shit, baby like must here  Music off morning y'all when you see I have a hat on you know, the has hit the fan running late to class  I really don't even care though because she just needs to be happy. I'm going it's very much week 13 of the semester  It's a Friday face  Look, I don't want to go to class today  Lexi can't even go with me usually we ride together and so since she can't go I really don't wanna go but I'm on  my way there and  This is gonna be such a hectic day all because okay, I'm at a red light  So today for my legal writing class, we had to bring in a rough draft brief of our brief printed out for peer review  My brief is terrible right now, but I was just like, you know, it's only peer review  I don't think the professor's gonna look at it  So I literally just wrote a bunch of madness and put it in the paper so I could turn that in then I have something  For my job due later today  I have a hair appointment makeup appointment and I have to transform from this to glam. So now we're in for a day  Oh  I  I  I  Makeup done by the best. I'll have her Instagram link. Do y'all need to book her? Let's get into the before  Y'all haven't seen me since all of the hair salon, yes, I have a little horn action right here, but  It's all gonna come together. I just have pin curls right now  I'm gonna take them out literally right before we leave key to getting your makeup done wear a zip up  With nothing underneath so that you don't have to pull nothing over or nothing. You need to just come  there  Mm-hmm. I  Like to do it for my hair, too  I just wear like a loose t-shirt, but yeah  You should always go to get your makeup done just with like a zip up so it's easy to remove and you don't have to  Like do anything with your face. My dress is a step-in. So I'm good. We're gonna go for like  Natural glam. Wait, let's see. Should I show your make you want to wait for the whole look?  But they want to see the getting ready. This is a vlog  The vlog the vlog people they can see them behind the scenes cuz they're real y'all the real  Subscribers like we are supportive. You can see the behind the scenes. So don't mind the head wrap  my makeup  She did like a smoky eye look  I like dramatic lashes on and then my hair is wrapped. I also went to our hair stylist  Yes, I'm gonna do natural glam though because my dress has is green. So I'm not gonna do green eye and green dress  I have so that's my dream like  You know my already knows the deal  Soft glam. I haven't worn lashes in forever. I'm excited  I'm just excited to not look like a troll for once like I've been looking rough. So let the transformation begin  I  Do that baby all night long and I'ma turn off on my phone  You know, I hate it when I'm that gone red  But I make it all up in the bed and it took me I'm done ain't no none  But the best he got off white on right then we could just make a plan for the East making bands in the West  I'm like  I  She's so caught she got the TV she may heat it up her food  Face done  Don't mind the hair. Oh, it looks really good on camera  With a lip liner  I'm about to eat and then I need to clean my apartment because I'm supposed to be  Looks crazy in there right now. Thank you so much to Maya again. Don't follow her her tick-tocks be going up  Yes, now it's time to transform this day has really flown by y'all  I am ready to get this ball over with but I think it'll be fun  I can't wait to see everyone's looks. Okay, the people who are going I'll have already met them  Well, of course Lexi's going. Oh, I should tell them about the whole ticket thing, huh?  I didn't realize it was such a high demand to get tickets to this ball  Y'all I really didn't but apparently now a bunch of students are trying to get last-minute tickets like seeing if anyone's selling a ticket  Meanwhile, I'm coming with four people. I don't even go to the school  Getting ready  It's a bride  Tell me  To the game  Yeah, oh no, how far we gotta walk yeah, it's just right there  Oh  Taking pictures  You  Oh  Oh  Oh  Oh  Oh  Oh  Oh  Good morning y'all. So it is Sunday. I did not vlog yesterday bears is always on Friday. I'm on my way to call your mother  And I'm ordering it online  I would recommend if you're going there to place your order early so you don't have to wait in that line  Howdy  So I'm checking in I look like the day I've had it is  320 can't really see it's like 3 20 p.m. I  Just finished like the rough rough. Okay, very much rough draft of my argument  Section I still have to write like all the front matter of the brief, which is just all this unnecessary stuff. Like oh my god  But I'm just happy to be done with that. Like I said, it's 320  I'm literally I think I'm gonna take a break until 4 quite frankly, so I'm watching a project runway  Yes, I'm obsessed with project runway. So I'm watching that  Just to like clear my head so that I can reread it with like fresher eyes  I'm basically gonna be working on this all night y'all. I also need to pay my taxes, which I've been procrastinating  It's April 10th  It's doing like I think five days and I'm probably gonna wait till I say just like enjoy my bank account as it is now  Yeah this Sunday I've literally I've just been working on this brief like yesterday  I didn't get as much done on it as I wanted to because I was just like not in the mood quite frankly  Let's just leave it if I like wasn't in the mood for it  So I got like maybe 30% done of what I wanted to get done yesterday  But anyway, it's okay. So just finished my draft I can you know, I can edit this is due tomorrow at 1159  I'm gonna keep this vlog going probably  Just cuz I feel like I haven't really given you a long vlog in a bit  So let me know down below if you'd like shorter vlogs or long vlogs. I've been doing the shorter vlogs  I know I like to watch what I watch vloggers. I like a longer vlog  So I'm gonna try to give that to y'all but I still need to get this up by Wednesday and it's already Sunday  So yeah, yeah working on this. I need to do laundry so badly, but I'm all out of time pods  So that's just gonna wait. I don't I don't have any time to go to the store  Like I need to put everything into this brief. I'm gonna have to just wait to do that  Which it's fine. Like I have a bunch of clothes, but I would prefer to get my hamper empty, you know  But whatever didn't buy any groceries  But I mean, I'm fine like I still have like the basics of food but usually Sunday, you know  I like to do those things, but I can't cuz I got this brief do so  Yeah, after we turn in this brief, we have our oral argument  which  Why do we have to do it in person y'all  I've only done oral arguments over zoom and now we have to go into school stand on the podium and all that  It's just giving unnecessary to me, but I have an event that day  Anyways, which is like I don't mind dressing up because I don't have to be dressed up to go to something else  So they got me they got me on a good day. Let's just say that  I need to sign up for an Orange Theory class. I did upgrade my membership  They got me all I'm hooked on it  So one commented saying I'll be hooked to Orange Theory and you were right like I'm hooked and I literally might upgrade again  In the summer, but for now, I'm just gonna stick to I think I just have like the elite membership or whatever  Which is pretty cool two classes a week basically eight classes a month  That's what I'm sticking to cuz you know summer is coming up. But okay, I'm just rambling to procrastinate. Let me finish watching a project runway  I'm gonna finish this episode. I'm gonna get back to the paper. Oh  This is when law school just is terrible y'all it's just actually awful  Okay, I'm here for another update. The time is 8 46 p.m. I  Have a rough job of a brief  Like all the components all the front matter and so now I'm just gonna show you all this very annoying process  Reason number  889 why I do not like litigation. This is a brief that I found online and I'm not gonna show you on my actual one  But basically I'm modeling my table of authorities after this brief because we're writing for the Sixth Circuit  So if you don't know how to format a brief, which looks, you know, all this crazy formatting stuff  You can just find an example on Westlaw or something. So basically what I have to do now is  Go through and find let's say I use this case, which I didn't like I said  I'm not showing on my actual one  I  have to find every single page that I cited this case under and put it right here and  then I have to do that for all the cases that I used as well as all of the statues that I used and  Any other things that I use like I have to go through and put every single page that it's on if there's like a lot  Of pages that you use it on you can just put it past them I think  But this is about to be tedious as hell. So I'm about to do that right now  I haven't eaten anything since that bagel, but I literally when I'm stressed y'all  I cannot eat so I probably won't eat until I finish this  I was gonna leave this for tomorrow, but I was like, let me just try to finish everything I can tonight  It's due tomorrow 11 59 p.m. So let me try to do all tomorrow just like edits, you know  Cuz I definitely got a lot of edits. So after I finish this table of authority  Then I have to write my table of contents, which shouldn't be too hard  And then I still haven't written the statement of the case, which is like all the facts and stuff. I  Don't think that'll take me that long  But I wanted to write that last just because I want it to be a little bit persuasive  My camera's about to die, but I don't feel I can tell I'm super stressed  So say a prayer for me, even though this will be out after this brief has been turned in  but just pray for the great girl because  Who I don't know why I went to the last minute, but I I don't know  Hey y'all, it is  930 and I'm  Clocking up for the day. I really thought I was gonna be up all night writing this brief, but  Literally, I am just not one of those people that can do work late at night. Like I'm surprised. I'm still working at 9 p.m  So I'm gonna go to sleep early  Well, I'm like I need to start my night routine now, and I'm gonna wake up super early in the morning  I just realized I didn't do the smartest thing  Like I literally just did you know my total table of contents and things like that  But I realized I didn't even finish writing the statement of the case  So if my statement of the case is longer than one page  I'm gonna have to change my whole table of contents all over again because everything is gonna be one page or two pages down  but whatever  It's already made the mistake  But you know, that's just a note to people watching this like do your table of contents last?  I really planned on doing it last but I was like, oh, let me just knock it out  So I don't feel like writing the statement of the case  But anyway, it's a 930 I'm clocking out  I'm literally like not capable of pulling all nighter. Like I don't care. I'll go to sleep and wake up early  Like that's just how I am. Okay, y'all  After I took a shower and did my whole skincare night night time routine  I was thinking in the shower that I need to just finish this damn brief  So that's what I'm gonna do  Even though I really want to go to sleep right now, and I really don't want to do this  I realized that like I need to just finish it. I need to just finish it tonight  So then tomorrow I can just spend the whole day editing  And I won't be so stressed out so back in the couch  I've been sitting on this couch for like nine hours today at least and I'm just gonna finish the brief  Like I said, I just need to write the statement of the case. So  I'm gonna pull up my I've had cuz this is where I have a prompt which the prompt tells you like all the facts of  the case  So I'm gonna kind of reread that  Type something hopefully it makes some sort of sense  But at this point the goal is just to finish and I can always edit tomorrow, but I really want to finish it today  I'm just kind of set that goal and I'm gonna just push myself  It is 11 o'clock at night and I have officially finished a full draft of my brief like everything done  so my voice is literally gone cuz it's late at night, but I'm about to print this sucker out and  Go to bed. I'll proofread in the morning. But at least I got the first  Drive done and I'm gonna have to do like 30 million edits tomorrow, but at least it's done y'all  I'm really proud of myself. I did not think I could do it  Don't mind the flashcards on top of my printer. I'm also studying for federal income tax  But this is you know, my baby getting printed out  Um, I like to print my things because I prefer to edit on like actual paper, you know, I really look  Very bad right now, but yeah, I like to edit on actual paper, so I prefer to print it out  This brief so far. It's like  4,577 words, I think it's totaled like 21 pages. Oh  I don't know why I waited to do this in a day  but I did it and I'm gonna have time to edit tomorrow and  I  Mean, I'm still not gonna go to Orange Theory Loki  I do want to just go though cuz I'm like, okay finish it but because I'm on call  I'm like, let me not push my morning, but it's 11. I  Am going to take a melatonin and go to sleep. I will see y'all in the morning  Good morning y'all. It's about 9 o'clock a  little later than I wanted to get started, but honestly  I'm giving myself grace because I didn't finish the roof last night. So  Whatever. Um, I don't know if y'all remember me  Say what you probably did but I'm actually on call today for family law and I have not read anything  So I am gonna like speed read right now. I normally do not like  Reading like day by day. I don't think I'm gonna have time to read for the week though. Because like I said, I still have to  do my  Probably oh you've got to be kidding me  My  Keyboard to my desktop is dead. I'm just gonna use my laptop  because I do not feel like  Finding one of those tables. This is just no good when it's dead. But to be fair, I don't I can't  So thankful that I have like a million and one Apple devices, so I'm always  I also have to register for classes tomorrow  This deadline really just snuck up on me. Like I thought I had another week, but it's literally tomorrow  I don't have any idea what classes I'm taking next semester. I am gonna do a clinic though  So I'm glad I got into that  But now we just have to figure out what we even need to read for family law  There was a makeup class on Friday that I didn't go to because I was getting ready for barrister's ball  I was literally in the hair salon while class was going on and I was just like, yeah, I'm not gonna do it  It was optional anyway, but now I don't know where we left off. So I don't know the first case. It's gonna be today  I texted my friend. She has not texted me back yet  And then I texted the class group me no one ever responds to my messages in there, but I just do it. Oh shit  I'm gonna join the damn zoom  Y'all. Oh  I need the syllabus and syllabus not the freaking class zoom link. Okay  Yeah, honestly is wrong  For having us on panel the last week of school  I  Look like I just escaped from a hospital, but at least I'm going in  I look crazy. I might just tell y'all about the stress. I just endured when I get in the car. Tell me why the man in the elevator  It's gonna say I'm so beautiful. Look at me  And I had a mask on I was just like, thank you. Like how do people even know that?  And it wasn't giving pretty I know I'm pretty but today this is just looking a very much hot mess, but  Anyway, so literally had a mental breakdown because I forgot I had to register for classes and how it works is  We're not registered. But like before you register at Howard you have to like  Get an advisor like professor to approve it and you have to get like an alternate pin and I was just really stressed  honestly for no reason because it all worked out but like I  Kind of was like, you know  I had to quickly count up how many units I have left because you know  This is 3l coming up like this is an important  Year, like I'm not trying to have to do an extra year extra semester like no  I'm trying to get out of here. Basically. I thought I was gonna have a smoother fall semester  But I'm not we have to take like 15 credits again  But it's okay because in the spring I won't be dying but uh  Why do I have to take so many credits? I just give me the degree  So tomorrow morning is when I'll actually like, you know  Do the speed like type in we're not typing but like paste in all my  Codes and get into the classes that I want hopefully God willing  But now on my way to campus class starts in like 15 minutes and I want to try to take a COVID test before class  Cuz you know, we just came from that ball like  Anyway, yeah, we're just gonna go head to campus  I  Can't wait for the day to be over with still have to finish the brief tonight  So I'm gonna skip class after this class and after biz orgs. I'm not going to sales. I don't care  this is gonna be my first absence anyway, and it's the last class so  She'll be alright  I can't help myself  When you're not around  You're all that I think about  It's not a waste of time  This is like a little light lunch. I mean, so I wanted to say I just paid my taxes and you know  Definitely in a bad mood whenever I got to spend a bunch of money for no reason I get in a bad mood  We're not no reason but you know, who likes paying taxes not me  But um, you know if you all are about to work the summer associate positions, you know, you're gonna make a lot of money  Make sure you like pay attention to those tax forms  I'm not gonna get into it  But just pay attention to the tax forms and like ask people don't be afraid to be like, how do I fill out this form?  I don't think the HR people are allowed to tell you but maybe ask like other law students who have worked there  I don't know ask me because  It can just you know around tax time. That's when that stuff matters  Oh  Good morning, it is Tuesday April 12  2022 and today that I need to register for classes for 3l year y'all I'm gonna be a 3l  I'm about to be out of law school. Thank you God. But anyway, yeah, I'm gonna register for classes  I still have to register one last time for you know, next spring semester  But this is gonna be like my last first day of school  Finally, I'm at the top of the totem pole for choosing classes  Like I've never been like having first pick of classes ever in my life even at UCLA  Still it was like weird how they would give out like the time slots for us to choose classes  So I'm glad that I can finally like now I'm only choosing against like 150 people  versus like the whole damn school, so  I'm excited  The class I'm not gonna tell y'all like the classes. I'm taking I'll probably reveal that like later  But hopefully I get into everything that I want. I do plan on doing a clinic next year. I'll tell you all about that later  because you have to get your experiential credits, but  Yeah, basically Howard we need 88 credits to graduate right now I have like I  Guess at the end of this semester, I think I'll have 59  So and I refuse to take summer classes because no, I'm just not that type of person. But um  Yeah, I've always choose my classes with Lexi. So I'm gonna go over there in a bit. It's like 833 right now  It opens right at 9. So right at 9 a.m. You want to be right at your computer?  She can get to look at your glasses ASAP before the people take them. Okay change of plans  I'm actually gonna be registering for classes from my bed. And yes, I'm still watching project runway. Um, yeah  I mean Lexi was just like she's still kind of sleep and she was like girl is  3l year like we don't have to be that price for classes like everything's gonna be fine  And I was like, you know, you're right. Like why am I stressing out a bunch?  So yeah, I just have my laptop right here with me in the bed, and I'm just gonna register for them then  Okay, this is what the Howard portal looks like. This is my setup and  So basically here you have to put in your alternate pin  Which the register office will give you and then on this side, which I'm hiding some stuff here, too  but you'll have like all of the little codes for the classes that you need to register with and  Basically once the clock strikes 9 as you can see, it's like 855 right now. It's kind of blurry  You can't see but whatever once the clock is 9. I'm gonna  Enter my pin and pace as fast as possible to choose my glasses. So yep, that's kind of how it goes  Of course, the website is freezing  of course  The website is freezing  The good thing I have a backup computer because I don't know what is up with this Howard website  Y'all know the stuff we've been going through  but um  It's frozen and so I'm texting Lexi and she was like hers is frozen too and she used her she used her Mac  So I'm now  Gonna try to do it on my iMac  It's always something y'all when I tell you it can never go smooth, so let's try again at this point  I'm like it is what it is. Like it's in God's hands. Whatever happens. It was meant to be  great  Great yay. Okay, so seven. Let me take these glasses off. I look like what I've been through. Okay  Seven minutes late. I'm sorry 17 minutes later 917. I finally got in my classes. I got everything I wanted  So like I said, it all worked out. Apparently people are freaking out in the group meet everyone is experiencing these delays. So  I'm glad  Now I'm glad but I'm glad I was not alone. Thank you all so much for watching this vlog  Pray for me because final season is coming up. I think my next vlog. I'm probably have one more vlog before my finals vlog, but  Done almost done with 2l year almost done. Y'all been sticking with me literally have only one more year of law school left  Yeah  But yeah  Oh the game in trouble started out small. I can be double. Yeah, you can drip shit, baby. Like what's here? 