 Welcome.  This is a guided loving-kindness or metta meditation instruction.  For more information, you can go to dhammasukha.org and read more about it.  First, find a comfortable position.  You can sit on a cushion or sit in a chair.  There is no magic to the floor.  We want you to be comfortable.  There shouldn't be any discomfort that's from your body.  The mind will have enough to keep you busy.  Relax.  Whatever is comfortable.  Take a deep breath.  Let it out.  Take a minute or two to just be here, here in the present.  Relax meditation is about observation and not trying, simply being and allowing.  Notice you are breathing.  Notice the feelings happening in the body.  Notice the feeling of sitting.  How is your mind?  Is it sleepy or is it awake and full of energy?  Are you feeling restless or calm?  Relax and slow down.  Settle into the chair, into the cushion.  Notice your whole body.  Everything that comes into your awareness, simply release it and relax and come back  to the present.  Don't pay any particular attention to anything.  This will turn into later what we call the six R's.  See how your mind is becoming spacious.  You notice the entire room and everything going on around you.  You relax and be with it.  Everything is okay.  You feel some gratitude for being allowed to sit quietly with nothing to do.  You are thankful for having some time for yourself.  So let's get started with our metta, our loving kindness meditation, or what we call  from the suttas, the practice of the Brahma Viharas.  When you practice loving kindness meditation, you first start by sending loving and kind  thoughts to yourself.  You remember a time when you were happy.  When that happy feeling arises, smile.  It's a warm, glowing feeling in the center of your chest.  The feeling is like holding a baby and looking into its eyes.  You feel this radiant, loving kindness in your heart, or perhaps a puppy or a kitten.  Whatever brought you this feeling of kindness, of warmth, you let it be there.  You didn't try, you just allowed.  Feel that happy feeling now.  A really helpful technique is to smile.  Put a little smile on your lips, just a little one, a Buddha smile.  Smile from your heart and smile from your mind.  Smiling can pull you out of negative states and thinking.  Smile during your whole sitting.  Always come back to a feeling of happiness with a smile.  Now take this happy feeling and radiate it to yourself.  Help it along with some phrases, like may I be happy.  May I be content.  May I be peaceful.  Don't just say these phrases like a mantra.  You need to feel them and only use phrases as reminders of that warm, beautiful feeling.  Phrases are not the object.  They're only to nudge along this beautiful feeling, this feeling of loving kindness.  Now sit with your back reasonably straight, not too tight.  Don't move your body at all.  Don't wiggle your toes.  Don't wiggle your fingers.  Don't scratch.  Don't rub.  Don't change your posture.  Don't rock back and forth.  Sit very still like a Buddha statue.  And remember on every Buddha statue the Buddha is smiling, with a little smile.  Smile of equanimity, of happiness.  When you don't move, it's like getting water to freeze.  You can observe the water, but you can't push it or move it.  You have to let it be there, freezing by itself.  Relax into any tension and tightness that makes you want to move.  Relax, smile.  You have this time for yourself.  Be content.  Put everything else aside.  Tell your mind you'll think about all these things later that might come up.  Don't worry, they'll come up, if they need to.  May I be happy.  May I be content.  May I smile and be peaceful.  May I have gratitude for everything that I have.  As soon as that warm, loving feeling arises, make a wish for your own happiness.  May I be free from suffering.  May my mind be uplifted.  May my mind be peaceful and calm.  May my mind be open and accepting.  May I have happiness.  May I have joy.  Are you smiling?  Put that little smile on your lips and feel that smile radiating throughout your body.  May I be content.  Whatever wish you make for yourself, feel that sincere wish.  You know what it feels like to be peaceful and calm.  Bring that feeling into your heart.  Radiate that feeling to yourself.  Wish for yourself to be happy.  Whatever wish you verbalize, make it with a smile.  Feel that wish.  You can make the same wish again as long as it has sincere meaning for you, or you can  change the wish occasionally.  May I be happy.  May my whole body be completely relaxed.  Now when you're sitting, your mind is going to wander and think about other things.  As soon as you notice mind is thinking about other things, simply let go of those thoughts.  Even if you're in mid-sentence, just let it go and relax.  Smile and come back to this feeling of loving-kindness.  Relax any tension and tightness in your mind caused by the thoughts.  Thoughts of desire, thoughts of the future, thoughts of the past.  Thoughts of things you want to do in the present.  I want, I don't want, I, I.  Relax and smile, release these thoughts.  Come back to the feeling of loving-kindness and make a wish for your own happiness with  another smile.  It doesn't matter if your mind wanders 50 times during a sitting.  And 50 times you see that, you let it go, you relax, you come back with a smile to your  meditation object.  That is a good sitting.  A bad sitting would be if you stop smiling when you notice that you're thinking and you  continue thinking about it and you don't let it go.  That's having no awareness and no mindfulness.  While you're sitting, there can be sensations that arise in your body.  You might want to cough, or there's an itch, heat, vibration, or just some painful feeling.  Doesn't matter.  As soon as that arises, your mind will be drawn to it.  You'll start to think about that sensation.  I wish it would stop.  I really don't like this feeling when it happens.  I wish it would just go away.  Every thought like that makes the feeling become bigger and more intense.  Allow them, relax into them.  If you do need to cough, you simply allow that to happen and continue on.  If you need to swallow, go ahead.  Just don't move your body and relax.  The very first thing you do is to let go of a thought about the sensation.  Release your attention from it.  Just stop thinking about it.  That's release.  Relax the tension or tightness in your mind, in your head.  That's the next thing.  You just release.  You stop thinking about it, and then you relax.  That desire that pulls you to the thought makes you want to go to the store and whatever  it is.  You may notice there's still a tight mental fist wrapped around that sensation because  you really don't like that sensation, and you really want it to go away.  The truth is when a sensation arises, it's there.  That's the truth.  You can't change it.  You can't wish for it to be something else.  It is just what it is.  So we be mindful.  We be in the present.  Everything is okay, and it's okay for that sensation to be there.  It has to be okay because it's there.  Anytime you try to fight with the truth, anytime you try to control the truth, anytime you  try to make the truth be anything other than it is, that is the cause of suffering.  Wanting to change things, wanting things to be something other than they are.  Something that you have to do in the future.  You have to make something better.  No, everything is okay right now.  Again, allow that sensation to be there.  Make it okay for it to be there.  Relax.  Gently come back to the feeling of being happy and making a wish for your own happiness.  While you're doing this meditation, remember this is a smiling meditation.  Remember you want to put a smile in your mind, and even though your eyes are closed, put  a little smile in your eyes, put a smile on your lips, a little one, and a smile in  your heart.  Radiate that smile from your heart.  Whenever you notice that you're not smiling, start again, gently.  Don't push, don't control.  Just everything, let it be.  You have all the time in the world.  After about 10 minutes, now we can start sending loving and kind thoughts to a spiritual friend,  one spiritual friend.  In the beginning of your training, the objective of this one spiritual friend is described  in this way.  A spiritual friend is someone of the same sex, they are not a family member, and they  are alive.  Easy.  A spiritual friend is someone who, when you think of them and their good qualities, you  really like them.  You respect them and you will sincerely wish them happiness.  Once you pick your friend, don't change the friend to someone else.  Stay with just this one friend for some time, and you are told that it's okay to change.  Now this friend can be a friend of yours, it can be your teacher, it can be somebody  who you know very well and you like them and you respect them.  Somebody that you can feel loving kindness for and you don't have other thoughts that  interfere.  Now we're trying to get the mind to stay with just one object in the beginning.  Later when there are signs of progress in your meditation, we'll add more people and  other methods.  But not just yet.  Now you make a wish for your spiritual friend's happiness, just like you did for yourself.  Make a wish for his or her happiness.  May you be free from suffering.  May your mind be uplifted.  May your mind be peaceful and calm.  Smile at your friend.  Hold them in your heart.  May your mind be open and accepting.  May you have happiness just as I do.  May you have joy.  Whatever wish you want to make for your friend, feel that wish.  Take your spiritual friend and put them right in the middle of your heart.  Smile and give them a great big heart hug.  Wish your friend well.  Feel that wish.  Take a real interest in your friend.  Really like them.  Now you don't have to visualize perfectly your friend.  All you have to do is know they're there.  You are just hanging out with your friend, wrapping them up in good kind thoughts.  If the feeling slips a little, smile more and move back to sending it to yourself to  build it up again.  Then come back to your friend and keep it going with another smile.  We only use one spiritual friend to begin our training because the mind may want to  distract itself because it says, oh, another spiritual friend is good, let me go there.  But that's actually the mind distracting itself and not being able to stay with one  object.  Later you'll use other people and other groups of people.  So continue with your spiritual friend.  Wrap him or her up in your heart and hold them.  Remember that puppy, remember that baby.  Bring your loving kindness to them just like you did before.  If your mind wanders, remember to release the thought, relax the tension pulling you.  Resmile, return to your object, your feeling of loving kindness for your friend and repeat.  These are the six R's.  These remind you of what to do when your mind wanders.  We don't jerk our mind back because if we do that our mind will just keep doing it again  and again.  We only observe when it has wandered.  We allow it and then we just relax.  We don't try to control but we see the tension and tightness.  We go, okay, that's okay and it fades and then we smile and come back.  This is different than many other methods and it's much more effective.  May my friend be happy.  May they be free from suffering.  May they be happy.  May they feel the kindness in my heart.  May they be at peace in the present moment.  May everything be well in their lives.  May they feel gratitude for what they have.  May they be free of anger.  May their mind and their heart be cool.  Keep them in your heart.  Give them a heart hug.  Wrap them up in happiness.  May we both be happy.  May we both be loving and kind.  May our minds be peaceful and quiet.  May our minds be relaxed and still.  May my friend get everything that they need, especially contentment and happiness.  May their health be free of issues.  May their health be perfect and radiant.  May they be happy.  May they be content.  Now this is a feeling meditation.  Notice this feeling of loving kindness and again don't put too much attention on what  they look like but what the feeling that you feel feels like.  Can be subtle.  It can be strong.  It can be weak.  It doesn't matter.  Just stay with this feeling, this warm glowing feeling.  Don't hold on to it.  Just observe it.  Let it be there and when your mind wanders, notice how it does that.  Investigate what happened first.  What happened second?  And smile again and come back to your friend.  May all beings be happy and content.  You can visit our website when you think you have things that you want to discuss. 