 Howdy doody, my name is Suzy and today I'm going to share with you how to make some coffee  filter long stem roses and rose buds.  And this video is really a sequel to my other video where I made coffee filter roses and  hydrangeas.  There was such a great response and so many people that really enjoyed it that you inspired  me to make this video and just add on these long stem roses and the little rose buds.  So there you go, you inspire me, I inspire you, it's a beautiful relationship.  So today, basically for starting, you're going to need some coffee filters, you're going  to need some food colouring, some water, some paper towel, you will need some floral wire  and you can get this at the dollar store, and some floral tape, which is a wax coated  green tape for your stems, that too you can find at the dollar store.  A little paint brush, a couple of long skewers or toothpicks for stirring, some very thin  gauged wire, again I bought this at the dollar store and this is what we're going to use  to make the leaves.  Some really nice cutting scissors and a pen.  And for additional tools which make things very handy is wire snippers and some needle  nose pliers and this is, it's not essential but it makes life a lot easier.  Now in the first video I made these roses which I have here and they look beautiful  but really I wanted just to add a little bit more interest to my bouquet so I started off  making these long stem roses because really I just wanted to add a variety of sizes of  roses just to make the bouquet more interesting and that was really the beginning of doing  these long stem roses and rose buds.  So I'm just going to show you.  So just by adding those additional long stem roses to the bouquet, it creates variation  and I think it makes them even more beautiful and the other thing that you can use besides  just having them as long stem roses like I've got here, and that looks fantastic, is that  I've used a mixture of the long stem roses and the large roses in a very short bouquet  and this is just dry floral foam that I've got in a little jar and created a short bouquet  which is beautiful for the center of your table because it's short and you can see people  on the other side.  So the first thing that we are going to do, or the first thing that I'm going to show  you which may be a repeat for some people but in any event it's a good refresher, is  you're going to dye your coffee filters and you're dyeing it basically in water and food  colouring.  So we're going to try and you want to dye about 4 sheets at a time and the reason that  you want to dye about 4 or 5 sheets at a time is you want to make sure that the colour goes  all the way through but when you go to dry them, which we are going to dry these on a  cookie sheet at 225 degrees for 15 minutes, they will dry perfectly that way.  If you pile layer too many it will take longer to dry, that's all, but it's not the end of  the world.  So something that I've noticed which makes the flowers even more realistic is having  a darker tone in the centre of the rose.  So in this example I used a darker colour of the same pink for the centre and then lighter  colours.  And the way to set your colours for your roses, we want to add some water, we want tons, because  it dilutes the colour and then you have to use a lot of food colouring.  So let's say for instance I want to make a berry, I want to make an old fashioned pink  so I'm just going to put a drop of the yellow and a drop of red.  And actually I'm going to just take my drop just by using my skewer, the red is powerful  and it will change the colour quite quickly.  Okay so that looks a little bit too yellow and I want it a little bit pinker, so I'll  just put just a touch, a tip, okay so that seems to have darkened it a bit and really  the variation is going to come, I mean you can make this darker but if you're going to  do whatever you want to do, oh gloves is a good idea, I think everybody has gloves  these days, gloves are a good idea because the food colouring will stay with you for  a couple of days.  So basically you just want to just immerse your sheets in water and then I've got this  very pale, it's almost like an old fashioned pink.  Just going to put it on my cookie sheet and of course if you want to change the colour  you can just add a little bit more, a little bit less, I'm going to put the full drop of  red to see what that imparts.  That's very very bright, this is the time that you want to play, what is this, oh that's  very dark, I am curious to see what that looks like though, very nice.  So I added a little bit of brown and you see how it's deepened the colour.  So basically you're going to have to play with your colours because I certainly can't  show you every single colour but essentially this is what I wanted to get, a darker and  a lighter.  Now if I like this colour for instance but I thought uh oh it's too dark then all I do  is just add a little bit of water to dilute it.  So I can add a little bit of water and try it out with one coffee filter at a time, let's  see if that's lighter than the last one, I suspect it will be.  So I like this colour and you can see the variation.  So I'm going to take my coffee filters, for one long stem rose you're going to want one  filter that is dark in colour, so your darker centre, and then you're going to want two  filters for the petals on the outside.  So it only takes 2-3 petals for each rose but if you're making a bunch of roses then  yeah you want to just make a whole bunch of coffee filters, you can always use them in  another project at any time.  So I'm just going to make a few more.  Now one thing that was really interesting was that I got this rose which goes from darker  to lighter, so the tips of the petals are darker then it becomes a two toned rose if  you can see that.  I've done one in the pink, I've done one in the yellow, so these are two tones, and  in order to get those tones you're going to dye your coffee filters, you're going to get  your coffee filters, 4 coffee filters or 2 coffee filters, whatever, and these are the  coffee filters that you've previously dyed and they're dried.  And then just fold it onto itself and create a little funnel like this, and then you're  going to dip this into a concentrated colour, in this case I did the yellow, with the pink  I did a darker red, but I'll show you.  You see how it's absorbing the colour?  So then when you open it up, you're going to get the colour in the middle, now this  isn't concentrated enough, and if it's not concentrated enough for you, so this is like  a drop of the yellow, and I'm just going to add a little bit of water to it, and then  you just want to just very loosely add some colour to the centre.  And dry this again, as it dries it spreads and you get this.  And the reason that you want that is because when we cut the petals, all the tips of the  petals, as in this case, will have the darker colour and then fade into the lighter colour  of the coffee filter that you originally dyed.  So those are the two tips on dyeing, use whatever colours you like, make extra filters in case  your rose doesn't turn out the first time around, so you've got extras.  Now when it comes to your leaves, which I've got some here and they're dried, you're going  to have your patterns cut out, but you're going to cut them out of some coffee filters  that you've previously dyed in a green.  The green turns out to be very very light.  So what you're going to do is you're going to take these filters, you're going to cut  out your pattern, just like I have here, and then you are going to make a small concentrated  amount of the green that you like, and yellow, a little bit of yellow, a little bit of red,  a little bit of green, gives you a very nice olive colour, which are the colour of these  leaves.  And if you don't add the red, then you can get a very bright green colour like this.  So it's really green here, but I've got yellow and blue, which is going to make green, and  you can see, look at that, it's a very very dark green, but I want it a little bit, I  want it actually a little bit more yellowish, it's too bluish.  So I'm going to just add a touch of orange, yes, that's a beautiful colour.  So this is very concentrated, and you're just going to want to add like half a teaspoon  of water at a time, oop, I think that was a teaspoon, okay, so a teaspoon, or half a  teaspoon of water at a time until you get a colour that you like, but you want to make  sure you don't add too much water because you're painting this directly onto the leaves.  So I've got my leaves here, and I've previously dyed the coffee filters, and you want to do  two leaves at a time, because if you do more than two leaves, and you want to do both sides,  if you do more than two leaves at a time, the paint will not go all the way through.  So you're just going to take your leaves and you're going to go through and you're  going to paint this concentrated green on both sides of the leaves to make sure it's  saturated all the way through, and then you're going to put this in the oven at 225 degrees.  Now if you're doing all leaves, you've only got two little layers of leaves, so you want  to maybe check it after five minutes, because there isn't much paper there to dry.  Just keep an eye on it between 5-10 minutes at 225, and then you'll get your dry leaves,  which I will show you how to assemble in the next step.  So here we are, we're just getting ready to start, and we are going to start off by making  the rosebud, and we're going to make two sizes of the rosebud, and the reason I'm making  two sizes is the larger rosebuds that I was making are more in scale with the roses that  I made from the first video.  The smaller rosebuds, which are these ones, they're slightly smaller, they're going to  be in a separate vase for just the long stem roses.  So it's the exact same process, but I'm just going to show you how to make one slightly  bigger than the other, so that you have the option to do either or.  So now we've got all our equipment, everything ready to go.  We're going to start off with two coffee filters, and this is the rosebud, so you can certainly  do it any color that you like, but I'm going to use two filters that are of the same color,  and all I'm going to do is I'm going to fold them in half, and then one of them I'm going  to fold over just a little pleat like this, about a quarter of an inch, and the second  one I'm going to do the same thing, but I'm going to fold it over a quarter of an inch,  and I'm going to fold it over twice.  So I've folded that over twice, you can see the two folds, and we're going to set these  off to the side.  Now to start our rosebud, if we're going to make the small rosebud, we're basically going  to take some paper towel and scrunch it up into a little ball, and we're going to put  it on our stem.  So this is the little ball that I started off with for the small rose, and this one  is a larger one.  So basically the center I'm making one smaller than the other, if you can see the difference  in size.  So to make this little ball we're going to need one piece of paper towel and our floral  wire, and then we're going to take our needle nose, and we're going to turn it at the end  and just make a little loop like this.  And this little loop is just going to help adhere to the little ball that we're going  to make.  So we're going to use one whole paper towel, and we're just going to fold it into itself  to create our center.  And we want it to be slightly egg-shaped, so the shape of a rosebud.  So I've basically just squeezed it like this, and then I'm just going to open it up and  add some glue in here, in here, in here, and then along the center.  And I'm going to put my hook in there, and then I'm just going to twist it and glue it  in place.  There you go.  And that's it.  So that's the center of our rosebud that we're starting.  Now we're going to take our first piece that we folded over twice, so it's got these two  little folds, and then we're going to take it and we're going to just cut off about,  I guess, a quarter of it.  So we're just going to cut the end off, and we're going to end up with two pieces like  this.  And then we're just going to take the small piece, and we're going to use it to wrap the  butt so it's the same color as the petals are going to be.  And I usually just take the paper and form it without the glue, just so you've got a  bit of a shape to start off with.  And then just open it up and glue it to our bud, so that's not too difficult.  So we're just gluing it down and squishing it, and then we always want to squish it on  the bottom so that you're getting a bud going like this.  No big deal, just something simple like that.  Now with this other piece that we have left over, we're going to create a little funnel.  So we want to create a little funnel that you can just insert your finger and create  this little funnel like this.  And we're going to fit our bud into the little funnel.  And you want it to be about that tight and this big.  So now that we've got it, what I'm going to do, I'm going to just glue the side so as  not to lose the little curl.  And then as it's open on the bottom this way, I'm just going to go in with dabs of glue  and just squish it together and turn it in the same direction.  See how the seam is going this way?  Just turn it in the same direction and then you get that swirl effect.  You could leave it like this as a little tiny bud, but I think it's nice that we're going  to create a funnel.  With this funnel, we're going to take our piece of paper and there's our fold, and we're  just going to put it in the opposite direction and fold it in the opposite direction.  Just exposing some of that tip and you see it creates another little layer to our bud.  And then I just turn it, creating this shape, and then I open it up and that's when I add  the glue on the inside, inside the little flower, and you just pop your glue in, turn  it until it's glued.  So now you've got your little rosebud.  You see the shape?  Now from here, we're going to add our little outside stem leaves, like we've got here.  So they're like this, and we're going to add the stem leaves so that it's going to cover  a little bit of the stem, but not all the way around because we're going to add two  more to create five, so this is three.  So it's like this, and then you just want to add glue here, glue here, and just tack  it into place, leaving a space for the other two petals that we're going to add, or one  petal that I like, five, it's an odd number.  So I just took that, and you slice off two, and then we're just going to add these two  to the stem at the bottom, like so, there we go.  Glue, and we're going to come in and we're going to pinch it into place so that all the  leaves are covering the little bud, like so.  And to the leaves, you just want to give them, fold them, and it just makes it look a little  bit more realistic.  Just fold the little leaves right down the middle, it gives them a little definition.  And then the tip, you want to, and I've got a little bowl of water here, you want to keep  your fingers moist, and you're just going to give it a little twist and create this  little tip that is pointy.  And it holds, it kind of holds the shape of the little petals, but it also makes it look  a little bit more realistic, as in life.  And then at this point, what I do is I take a look at the bud, and I'm going to tack my  little petals all the way around the way that I would like them, and I just tack them  just halfway through on the rows, one little dot, that's all it takes, one little dot,  and then that way I can kind of position them in a way that I want to see the petals covered.  This little guy is a little too far over, as you can see, but that's okay.  We'll just tack it down over a little, and there we go.  So these are all tacked down.  You can curl them out a little bit, or leave them closed, however you like.  And then at this point, we're just going to take our tape, and this is floral tape,  which is waxy.  It's waxy and it has a little stretch.  And we're just going to start at the very top of the bottom of the flower, and you want  to give it a good tug to start it, so that it's pretty tight, and then you're just going  to, and you want to keep your stems, the straighter your stems, the easier it's going to be.  And then you're just going to pull and turn.  So I'm twisting and I'm pulling the tape at the same time, and the wax actually creates  well, it's a little bit sticky and it adheres to the wire.  Now I've got, that doesn't look so good, there's a little gap here, and I can just take a little  extra piece, like this, and I'm going to add it to here to cover up that little gap, because  I don't like it.  So it's very versatile, the tape, you see?  So now you've got this covered wire, I already know that my rosebud is too long, so I'm just  going to just nip it off the bottom, I don't want it that long.  So that's the bud, which I think looks really beautiful.  Now we're not finished with the bud, because we're still going to add leaves to it.  So I'm going to show you how to make the leaves.  Now for the leaves, you're going to need about 6 inches of this thin gauged wire, which I  got at the dollar store, and you're going to need two little wires.  So one 6 inch wire, two, so you've got these two little wires, and then I'm just going  to take a little bit of my floral tape, you know, a little piece, another little piece,  difficult to start because the wire is so thin, but you want to just pinch it and get  that started, and then you're just going to cover, not even the whole wire, just the  middle of the wire, like that, you just want enough.  This is the part that's going to be showing once the flower is done.  So we'll do that to the two little pieces of wire, the leaves I was working on have  come off on my hands.  So then you've got these two little pieces of wire that have metal on the ends, and then  you're going to take the two little pieces of wire, you're going to make a cross, and  you're going to have a short piece, a long piece, and a long piece, and then you're going  to take the two long pieces, twist them together two times, and then you get this pattern which  is the way the leaves are on a rose.  So now that we've got our little cross, we're going to take six petals, two, four, six,  and I really like doing a light and a dark color, it looks very interesting on the leaves  where one side is light and the other side is dark, but you do whatever you like.  So I've got six petals, three pairs, and then I'm going to take a pair, and it doesn't  matter, I've made so many leaves I've lost pairs so they don't match up, but that's okay  because we can trim it afterwards.  And then I'm just going to fold it in half, and then just do a little accordion like this,  and it just gives it a little bit of a more natural look.  And then you just open up your little petals, and we're going to put a bead of glue all  the way down the middle of the petal, and then we're going to take one of our little  sticks, we're going to put it right in the middle of the petal, and then we are going  to sandwich our wire between the two petals so you see the petal now becomes flexible  and movable.  But the sides are not glued, so we're going to follow the outline and glue the two petals  together.  So I'll glue the center and I'll do the outline at the same time.  So then it looks like this, and you've got the little tail on the bottom.  So when you're drawing out these leaves, I guess I forgot to show you, you're going to  need one coffee filter, so you've got your coffee filter like this, and you're going  to fold it once, fold it twice, fold it three times, and you're going to draw out your leaf  with the little tail, like that.  And that little tail is this little tail, which we are going to twist and glue onto  the stem, and it's going to make the leaf pucker.  But before we do that, so our leaves don't match up.  So all you have to do is I'm going to just come back in, and I'm going to trim the leaves  so that they are a perfect match.  I'm going to take a little bit of that stem.  So now they're a perfect match.  And then this little tail, I'm going to glue together right there, and then I'm going to  add a little bit on the top.  I'm going to pucker the leaf, and then I'm just going to twist the little stem.  Oops, it needs a little bit more.  I'm always, you're always better off using less glue than too much glue because it gets  very hot, and it will burn your hands.  So you see, when you twist it, you get a little pucker, and now you can twist that leaf however  you want.  So now let's do the other two.  We're going to do the same thing.  We've got our leaves, fold, create a crease, accordion fold, just to give it a little shape,  opening, open up your leaves, fold down one side, and then we're going to put a bead of  glue from the top all the way down to the bottom.  We're going to insert our wire and sandwich it between the two leaves.  And the leaves don't match up again, but before I cut them, I'm just going to fold the leaf  over like so, put a bead of glue on the outline, sandwich it together.  We're going to do the same thing on the other side.  Open up the leaf, put a little bead of glue by just following the outline, glue it together  so it's like this.  And now they're not matching up that great, so we're just going to come in and take your  scissors and just trim it so that they match, and you get a perfect leaf.  Then we've got that little tail that's left over that's loose, just going to put a bead  of glue in between it and a little bit of glue on the top, and we're just going to pinch  it so that you've got this little pucker, and then we're going to just turn it around  and glue it right into the branch, so it just becomes part of the little branch.  Then our last one, a little bit, and it's nice that you're actually cutting each leaf  because then each leaf becomes a little bit different, which I think helps and makes it  more interesting.  So that's the basic shape that we want, and so now we've got our little rosebud.  You'll probably end up with a whole bunch of these little glue hairs or whatever.  You want to put it, well, you can put it wherever you like, but you want to keep it fairly close  to the top because when you insert your roses into the vase, as I have here, it's a fuller  look in your vase.  So I think that's tall enough, and then you just add your two pieces of wire together.  You can twist it around just so that it holds in place, like so.  Then you want a little piece of tape, just about that much.  If you see the curtains moving, that's my dog Chester looking outside.  I think he's trying to tell me something.  And then you're just going to add the tape over the two wires, and then that's it.  There you go.  That is your rosebud.  That's a small rosebud.  So we can add that to our vase, and you see how quite effective it becomes, and it's just  like a different size of rose.  Now for the larger rosebud, we're actually going to do the exact same thing, except that  we're just going to use a little bit more...we're going to use three filters instead of two,  and we're going to make our base a little bit bigger.  So I'm going to grab the larger rosebud, we're going to need one and a half pieces  of your paper towel, and that just takes it one size up.  So one and a half, scrunch it up, create your ball, but also keeping in mind that you want  to create this rosebud shape, or an oval shape to start off with, so like so, and just  funneling it down so you've got a little tail that you can add this wire to.  We're starting off with a slightly larger center, you can use three or two, the rosebud  is going to be larger because you've made the center larger.  So we're going to start off like we did before, we're going to fold our coffee filter in half,  then create this little quarter inch fold, create another quarter inch fold, like that.  You're going to cut off about a quarter of it, because we need this to wrap our bud in  so that you can't see the color, and if you just wrap it like this, and then add your  glue, I find it makes it a lot easier, just add glue to the inside, you just want to cover  it so it's the same color, and then you're going to do the same thing, we're going to  create a little funnel hole, like so, you see, like that, a very small hole, and you  will also want to make sure that it is upright with the flower, so you want to make sure  that it's up like this, so now I've got my first little wrap, there we go, so now you've  got this, it's all nicely glued, and we're going to do the same thing that we did with  the smaller rose, but this time we're going to still create the same funnel, and we're  going to fold it in half, and this time we're just going to fold it back onto itself once,  then you're going to create your little funnel just to start it off with your finger, you  want it to be opposite, right, so that you've got this swirling effect, and make sure that  as you're gluing, you are funneling the bottom, or you want to narrow the bottom so that it  blends nicely into your wire, that's two, and you can leave it like that if you like  the size, but I'll show you the difference in size right now, it's already larger because  we've started with the larger center, and it will be more to scale of the other flowers,  but I'm going to do a third petal, so we're going to do the same thing, fold it back once,  and then we want to create a fold on the opposite side, so we're creating another funnel,  this time it's a little bit wider, in the same direction as your swirl, and then hold  it in place, and then of course open this up and start gluing, there we go, ok so this  is our rosebud, and you can definitely see that it is larger in size than this rosebud,  and then we're going to do the exact same thing as we did with the small rosebud, we're  going to grab some leaves, this at the bottom, and kind of try and blend it into the stem,  it'll make it look nicer, and finish off this part, now this doesn't seem to be lining  up as well, so actually, you know what, I'm going to take these two, because you want  it to make it look symmetrical, there's a little gap there, so I'm going to just glue  one here, and I'm going to glue another petal, so I can glue these petals very close to this  bud, so it looks like a whole bud, or I can do what I was doing before, and crimp and  push them out so that they're slightly open, just create a little crease in the middle,  and then we're going to dip our fingers in a little bit of water, and just twirl these  little guys at the end, look at them, so they just have a little spike, adorable no?  I am going to tack these on to the side, look how beautiful that is, very nice, and then  you want to get a good grip on it to start, and sometimes, if I'm having a hard time,  there goes the ghost again, he's getting restless, whoops, hold on, and then I'm going  to do the same thing I did before, to get this shape, and then I'm going to take my  two leaves and add it on, and then I'm going to come in and I'm going to add this maybe  a little bit further down, large, and our small, so you can see the size difference  between the two, and like I said, the only reason I'm making the larger one is because  I think it's more in scale with the roses that I made, maybe you made, in the previous  video, but nevertheless, it looks beautiful with large buds and small buds, so next we  are going to make our actual rose, and it's the exact same method as I just showed you,  it's the same method for a larger or smaller bud, and it's the same thing for the rose,  so we're going to make a smaller rose, which is going to be this size, and we are also  going to make a larger rose, which is going to be this size, so I don't know if you can  tell one is larger than the other, but it is, so they're made exactly the same way,  it's just you're going to start off with one core which is larger than the other, so we're  going to start off making our small rose, and we're going to use our paper towel, one  piece of paper towel, adhere to our floral wire, and from here, I'll put this away, so  I think you'll see less activity with the curtains now that doggie has been walked,  so getting back to our small rose, long stem rose, so we basically scrunched up one paper  towel and turned it into this little oval shape, and then we're going to take two coffee  filters, and I'm going to use the ones that I've got the deeper colour in the middle,  and you'll see how that works, and we're going to fold it over once, and then we're  going to fold it over again, and then we're going to fold it over again, we're going to  get 16 petals all together, and then all we're going to do is we're going to separate  all the petals by cutting down the middle straight through, so now we've got all our  separate petals, and this is actually going to be the top of our petal, and this is going  to be the bottom of our petal, and then I want you just to take half of the bunch, and  we're going to create a pleat so that our petal becomes cupped, and you see how the  little pleat is on an angle, that basically is giving us the shape for our long stem rose,  so then we're going to take the other half, we're going to do the same thing, we're going  to make a pleat, it's like a little V, and all the petals are cupped, so now we're just  going to separate all the little petals, and then we're going to put a dab of glue on the  inside and on the outside in order to glue that together, so just a dot on the inside of that  pleat, a dot on the other side of the pleat, and we press it together, and it's this little cup.  Do this to all the petals except for two, so two of the petals are going to go towards covering  the center of the rose, which is the paper towel, and the other petals, which is going to leave us  with 14 petals, we're going to use around that little bud.  Ok, so we've got all our little cupped petals here, and now we've got these two flat triangles,  and we're just going to add some glue to the triangle, and we're going to cover the center with one,  and cover it with the second petal. We're going to take our petal, which is cupped, and we're going to just insert it,  so we want the petal, or the point, to be that far above, and so we're going to hold it like this,  we're going to add glue here, and we're going to add glue here, and we're going to fold the petal around itself,  so we've got this, and we're going to do that with three petals, so we're going to work in three,  so I'm going to overlap slightly, do the same thing, come in with a bit of glue, wrap it around itself,  now we've got that, and then I'm going to take the third petal, and wrap it around there, add some glue,  and then just glue it onto itself, like this, so we've got this, and we're going to continue going all the way around,  and I find it easier to place my petal, so I look for the gap, in this case it's here, I place my petal on top,  making sure the points are slightly lined up, and then I turn it over, in place, and then glue it,  and I just find that it's easier to get it, all the petals will work more evenly, so here's my next gap,  I know it's going to look good here, petals are all the same, I turn it around, and glue it, in place,  and try squeezing the end so it doesn't bulk up too much, and take a look at your flower,  and just see where there's a petal missing, that looks good there, turn it around, add your bit of glue,  you want the shape to be consistent, and you want all the petal lengths to be equal, so just keeping that in mind.  Then you end up with something like this.  We're going to add our stem leaves, and this is a larger flower, so we're definitely going to need 5 of these,  so 3, and then I cut off 2 extra, and I forgot to mention, but we're making our stem leaves,  and we're going to get 4 stem leaves out of 1 coffee filter, which we're going to dye this green,  and we're going to fold it once, and we're going to fold it over again, and then we're going to draw this simple design.  Draw our outline, which is this design, and we're going to cut it out, so we're going to get 4 stem leaves per filter,  so depending on how many flowers you're making, I just make a whole bunch, and then I can use them as I go along.  So we're going to add for our other 2 leaves, which we're going to attach, and again it seems to, yeah, I'm going to cut them,  and I'm going to attach them one by one, because I think I can get a better orientation on the flowers,  and make them a little bit spaced out better around the flower, so I've got a little bit of a gap here,  and I'm going to add my final one here, so then we've got this, and just as we did with our rosebud,  we want to just take each one of our stem leaves, and just crease it down the middle, a little fold,  and then the ends, dip our finger in a little bit of water, and just twirl it, a little leaf, and tuck it in place,  halfway, so then it looks like this.  And now, just measure out a strip around the base of the rose, and we're going to turn it,  and we're going to turn, we're going to pull with the left, and twirl with the right, pull and twirl, pull and twirl.  Now we have this, and now comes the magic.  So I'm going to demonstrate on a petal.  So all we're going to do, we're going to start from the outside.  We've got all these loose petals, we're going to start from the outside, and we're going to,  and pretend this is an outside petal, we're going to just make our fingers moist,  and we're going to twirl the tip, and we're going to roll it up,  just like you would roll up the rim on a coffee filter, or roll up the rim on a cup.  And you can see the effect that that twirling has.  You can twirl both sides, you can untwirl it as well.  But see how that creates a petal that's very realistic.  So I'm going to start off with the outside petals, it works better if your hands are damp,  and I'm going to twirl, and the very outer petals, I'm actually going to try and twirl all the way down the side.  So I'm going to twirl the top, and I'm going to twirl the side,  and then I'm going to move on to the next petal,  and I'm going to twirl that down, move on to the next petal,  and I'm going to twirl it off to the side.  You don't have to twirl it directly down, which you can,  but it makes it more interesting if you roll it up, and alternate, roll up one side,  then on the next petal, roll it up in the opposite direction.  And keep doing that all the way around.  And this really turns these petals into very realistic rose petals.  You see how it's turning out?  You do have to get those fingers damp.  And there you go.  There's a single rose.  Now this rose, I didn't add the little twirl in the middle, so it creates a different effect.  And let me show you when you add that in the middle.  My other petals here, I'll do a yellow.  And I've got my starter, and I'm going to take a petal, and I'm going to cover it.  So I've covered up with a petal.  Now I've covered it with two petals.  And now to create a funnel effect, I'm going to take another coffee filter.  I'm going to fold it in half.  I'm going to fold it over a quarter, just like we did with our rosebud.  So you've got a quarter inch little fold.  And I'm going to create my funnel.  So I've got my funnel, and I'm going to fit my rosebud into that.  And we're going to do the same thing as we did with the other rose.  We're going to take our petal, we're going to put it over it.  We want our petal to be longer.  And then we're going to glue it.  I'm going to take the next petal, slightly overlap, turn it over, and place.  There we go.  So it looks like this.  And it's longer than our little cone that we made.  So now we're going to do the same thing as we did with the other flowers.  We're going to take our three leaves, glue it a little bit further down so that it's going to cover the base of this flower.  And there we go, all of them is covered.  Then we're going to do the same thing, wet our fingers, working from the outside in.  And I always start rolling down the sides of the first outer petals so that you've got this effect.  And I will alternate sides.  How much you dampen your hands, you can't seem to get a hold of it.  And that's, I think, the dye, the food colouring.  So it's time to wash your hands with soap and come back.  That's much better, I'll have a better grip.  Moisten your fingers.  So there you go.  So you've got a rose that, just by rolling back the petals, you're now creating another texture.  And you've got that little funnel inside.  So it creates a little bit of a different shape.  So here's the rose with the funnel in the middle, which took the extra filter.  Here's the rose without the funnel in the middle.  So it makes them slightly different.  You have a variety of shaped roses.  It makes it more interesting in your vase for certain.  And I know that the curling of the leaves may take a little bit of practice,  but it really, really gives it such a realistic look.  Now the finale is, of course, just adding the leaves to it.  Rose that we can add to our bouquet.  Now that was the small rose.  And for the large rose, it's the exact same thing as we did for the small rose.  But the only difference is that in the small rose, we actually folded.  We had four folds.  In the large rose, three folds.  So your petal for the large rose is going to be larger.  I'll show you.  And you're only going to fold it over twice.  So you can see the difference in size of the two.  I didn't end up using all of the 18 petals.  It just made too thick of a rose.  I did end up having three petals left over.  And I thought that was a great size.  But basically you are going through the exact same steps to make a larger rose.  You're just using larger petals.  So that's the video on how to make these long stem roses.  I think they turned out amazingly beautiful.  Look at that.  I feel like I'm at the florist with all these flowers.  It's fantastic that you can make all this out of coffee filters.  It's really amazing.  Plus it's a fun project to work on.  If you wanted to make the roses look even more realistic,  I would add some filler like Baby's Breath or some greenery.  And one last tip that I found works really well,  I use an air freshener on my roses.  Just a light mist.  I've got some beautiful tea rose air mist or air freshener  that you can lightly mist the roses.  And the coffee filter actually retains the scent for quite some time.  So you can have the beautiful fragrance of the roses in the room  and the beautiful roses to look at.  So I hope that you enjoyed this video.  Thank you so much for all the people who watched my last video  on making roses in Hydrangeas.  And all the people who have subscribed.  That tells me that you are enjoying what I'm doing  and you'd like to see more.  I've got lots of ideas.  So I hope you try these roses.  And if you like them, I hope you share them.  Enjoy!  Bye! 