 Today on Gardening with Creekside, I am going to show you exactly how I created and planted this gorgeous tiered planter.  Stay tuned!  Hello friends, welcome to Gardening with Creekside. I am Jenny, and today we are going to be creating and planting the partner that goes with the other tiered planter that I created.  Oh gosh, it was a while ago now.  This has been a fun little creative journey for me.  We are going to go back a little bit. So back in the fall, of course, we had the order of Michael Carr Pottery come.  Some of it was the aqua pots, some of it was just traditional containers.  One of those pallets was these beautiful white quilted pots.  These are traditional planters. These are not aqua pots. These are not the self-watering containers.  So on this pallet, there were a set of six. There were these two large, then two medium, and two small.  The two smalls, medium, they sold like hotcakes. They were gone, lickety-splits.  These guys are quite large. They're a big pot, so they're going to have really just that unique space for people to need a pot of this size.  So they didn't sell right away, and so they stayed over the winter.  Over the winter, we thought, hey, we're going to put them right here because they'll be beautiful.  We put like a 15-gallon Emerald Green Arborvitae in them just to have them as kind of a showpiece, flanking right here the walkway up to the greenhouse.  They were just still in their containers. We didn't actually plant them in the containers.  Over the winter, Jerry and I were just talking, and I had this bright idea because you know that I am such a huge fan of Kinsman Garden Company.  They just have the most unique garden supplies, really high quality.  I just love their products, and I shop there quite frequently online.  Notice that they had what's called the Pamela Crawford series designs of planters.  So Pamela Crawford is a gardener who created this amazing system of planting your plants on the side of containers, whether it's a hanging basket or a hay rack.  So she also had come up with this tiered system.  I ordered it from Kinsman. The time became appropriate that I could go ahead and plant them.  Well, wouldn't you know, by then a little bird had made her nest and laid her eggs in this pot that had the Emerald Green Arborvitae.  So I had to wait until the baby birds hatched and flew the nest before I could actually plant it.  I went ahead and did this one on a rainy Saturday.  I planted it in the pouring down rain, but it had time, and I did it, and it came out gorgeous.  Obviously, there's a big time difference between these two, but I wanted to show you the whole system, how it works, how I planted it, so forth and so on.  Again, keep in mind that this is a display here at the nursery.  We have big, huge open areas. I need to make a big statement when people come here.  I want to inspire gardeners. You don't have to plant it the exact same way. This is all for inspiration.  If you want to copy the exact plants, great. Go for it. If you don't, no problem.  This is an inspiration that we're doing for you and our customers that come here to Creekside Nursery.  So without further ado, let's get going.  Okay. Comes as a whole system, right?  You do have to buy the top planter separate because it comes in different sizes.  So what you're responsible for is providing the pot.  You need a pot of any size that has a drain hole in the bottom.  So I'm going to go and try to show you this as best I can because it can be a little weird.  Okay. So first you have, this is what goes on the bottom.  Basically, this is like a riser that goes underneath the pot.  It has three bars that are welded on here.  Those bars go down just like little pot feet.  And I might have to have Jerry help me do this because this is kind of a two-person job.  So this goes underneath the pot directly onto the ground.  Then you have, they give you bolts. They provide all the hardware.  This is a bolt. I'm going to use the largest one because this is a big pot.  It's thick and I need that height.  So you've got the bolt and then they give you the little washer and you put the washer on.  You take the bolt, you slide it through.  Well, you don't slide.  See, it's been like, I don't know, six, eight weeks since I planted the last one.  So you don't slide. You have to thread it.  This way it doesn't come off.  So this whole system is very secure.  You don't have to worry about it.  I mean, we've had some pretty good windstorms.  We've had, you know, rain and all that other stuff.  And that planter behind me has never moved.  So that's a good thing.  And again, this is why I love the Kinsman company because all of their products are super tough and durable and they last.  This is not cheap quality products.  So we're getting there.  It's getting screwed on.  All right.  So you're going to screw it all the way flush.  All right.  So there we go.  You're going to lift up the pot.  Slide it on.  There's a little skink under there.  Go away, little buddy.  And then there you go.  All right.  So the pot is sitting on there.  All right.  Okay.  Next, what we're going to do is I also give you this little guy.  Okay.  This is like it's going to slide on top of that bolt and then we have a nut that's going to screw on there.  Now, it also is raised.  Let's see if you can.  I don't know if you can see this.  Let me show you.  Tiptoe through the plants here.  Can you see how there is one side that's flat and one side that's kind of raised?  So we're going to put it down just like this so that the water can seep underneath and still drain through the drain hole.  Because, as you know, drainage in containers is a big deal.  So that just slides on.  Now take the nut and screw it on.  All right.  So now everybody is nice and secure.  Now what we're going to do is take the pipes.  This is what the tier system is.  And we're going to screw this onto that bolt that is sticking up.  You just twist.  Now, it does come with a 12-foot extender riser.  And so you can use it or you can not use it.  Because of the scale, the size and scale of here at the nursery, I do want to go ahead and use it because I want my basket to be raised up as much as possible.  So we're going to screw it on nice and tight.  All right.  Then let's see.  Oh, here we go.  Just trying to remember.  So here we have the 12-foot extender.  It already has the bolt threaded on there.  So then we take that, screw it on.  Nice and tight.  All right.  They're not going anywhere.  Next, you have this plate.  And on this plate, on the top, this is what the basket is going to sit on.  On the top, you have these clips.  This is what the basket is going to clip into.  And then on the bottom, there is where this is going to slide down on top of the pole.  You will notice that there are some little holes right here.  We're going to have a bolt that goes through here.  So what we do is we take out the little rubber stoppers.  Get rid of those, guys.  This slides down on top.  We line it up.  We take our handy-dandy bolt that they gave us.  Thank you.  I was like, something's not right here.  This is why I have my trusty assistant behind the camera.  He keeps me straight.  It's black because you don't want a silver one.  And I was like, where's the nut?  The nut's in front of the camera, but hey, I digress.  All right.  So this slides through.  Get everybody lined up.  Take the nut.  All right.  Here we go.  So it's all secure.  It's completely attached to the pot.  It's not going anywhere.  Now, again, like I said before, you purchase the basket separately  because it comes in different sizes.  Obviously, this is a large pot, so if you had a smaller pot,  you might want a smaller basket.  This is a 16-inch basket.  You can use this also as a hanging basket.  So it comes with the hardware, the chain, the hook,  everything that you need if you wanted to create this as a hanging basket.  So this is where the Pamela Crawford geniusness comes in.  So you notice this basket, it has the holes already pre-drilled in there, right?  So we're actually going to take plants and plant them in the side all the way around  and then plant the top.  Now, on the bottom, we have – there is just a little hole right here.  That's going to sit.  There's a little notch that's going to sit in there,  but the clips are going to clip onto the bottom ring of this container.  So it just takes a little bit of finagling to make sure you get it right  and get everybody hooked in.  And once you get it lined up, then you slide it,  and it pops into place and makes sure that everybody's hooked.  Under those are.  And this is.  All right.  Now, it's leaning a little bit.  So we'll have to – you know, creek side, nothing is level around here.  So we've got to actually level up the pot because the pot's tilting just a little bit.  We'll take care of that in the final preparations.  All right.  So now we've got it all assembled, and now we're ready to start planting.  The best thing that I found to do is, first, I like to plant the top,  but I like to go ahead and fill the bottom up with soil.  It makes it more stable.  So we're going to fill up the bottom with soil.  Jerry's going to help me because these are big bags that broke.  So he's going to help me.  We're going to fill it up with soil, and then we'll start planting the top.  Which one do you want to use?  All right.  That's probably good.  Got to be able to add some.  Yep, we're good.  When you're adding in your potting soil, you want to, of course,  make sure that you pack it down as much as you can.  This potting soil is nice and fluffy.  We want it nice and compact.  That will help.  You can also adjust your tier at that point.  Now, what we're going to do is we're going to plant the pot first.  Now, one other little addition that I got from Kinsman.  This is completely, you know, optional.  Because this is at the nursery, this is not going to be on irrigation.  We're going to have to hand water this.  This is what they call a basket well.  So this is a really fun little thing that they have that you can buy,  not super expensive at all.  And basically, you put it in the bottom of your hanging baskets.  And so this will hold water in the bottom, has holes in the top where the  soil will be touching, and so it can kind of wick up water a little bit.  Not necessarily a self-watering container,  but it certainly will help retain some moisture.  Now, Jenny's short, so I'm going to use my bucket as my stool.  And we're going to get some soil and start filling in just the bottom.  So here we go.  Got my little bucket.  And you have to fill this by layer by layer.  You can't just, like, fill the whole container.  It just doesn't work as well.  So this is where gardening gets dirty, and it's all right.  So you're going to fill in the bottom.  And you're going to have soil that spills out of the holes a little bit.  That's why I like to plant the top first,  so that you don't get the plants underneath you all dirty.  Now, on this basket, there's 18 holes on the sides.  So I have three plants that I'm going to use.  I'm going to use the white licorice.  This is the helichrysum.  This is the one that's really vigorous.  It's the one that you see predominantly over in the pot behind me.  It gets really wild and kind of wooly.  So this is fun.  It brings in a silver color to it.  And I'm just tossing pots because, you know, we're going to make a mess here.  Again, this is one of the most vigorous ones.  Now, you got a little finagling here, okay?  There are little slits in the holes.  She says that a 4-1⁄2-inch pot will fit.  So, see, there we go.  I've got my root ball in there.  The plant part is falling out.  And then I'm just simply going to nestle it in there.  Now, because I'm using three different plants,  basically I'm going to have three plants in a section,  but I'm going to alternate them.  So right now, the white licorice is on the bottom.  Next time, it'll be up here on the top.  And then I rotate so that there's not just one block of the same plant all the way around.  Now, you can do that.  That's a total, you know, preference choice that you get to decide how you want to plant this.  This is the creative freedom in the whole thing.  So what I'm going to do now is I like to plant all of the bottom  and then come up and plant the top.  So this is black sweet potato vine.  So it's going to go here.  It can be a little tricky getting these guys in.  So if you did have a smaller container pot size, it would work maybe a little bit better.  I did find that the ones that had the more vigorous root system went in a whole lot easier.  So you're just going to stuff them in there.  But that's the great thing about having a nice mature plant is that it doesn't mind too much  if their roots get a little disturbed.  So there we go with that.  Now, this pot is going to be slightly different than the last one  simply because we're talking about like a six to eight week difference in planting,  and I don't have some of those plants still available.  So here, over there, I used the large Terrenia, the blue Terrenia.  I'm going to use Chocolate Drop Coleus on this one.  I wanted to use it on the other one, and we were really low on supplies,  and Jerry was like, you can't use it. We don't have enough.  So I'm using it on this one.  And the reason I do have Terrenia that I could use,  but the main reason I'm switching it up on this one is because the Terrenia  has gotten completely lost in that container.  Like you can barely see that there's even any Terrenia in there.  So I'm hoping that maybe the Coleus is a little bit more vigorous  and can stand up to the Helichrysum and the black sweet potato vine.  So what I'm going to do is just continue my pattern all the way around the bottom,  add in some more soil, and then continue my pattern around the top.  ♪♪♪  ♪♪♪  ♪♪♪  ♪♪♪  ♪♪♪  ♪♪♪  ♪♪♪  ♪♪♪  ♪♪♪  ♪♪♪  ♪♪♪  ♪♪♪  ♪♪♪  ♪♪♪  ♪♪♪  ♪♪♪  ♪♪♪  ♪♪♪  ♪♪♪  ♪♪♪  ♪♪♪  ♪♪♪  One thing that I did find challenging  about doing this container  is when you get up to the top,  you start running out of room  for your root balls to go.  So you just got to make sure  you kind of tuck them down in there  and everybody is nice and happy  and snugged down and pushed down  as much as they will go.  It's amazing it does not take long  for this to fill in.  So that's all pushed down.  We're going to do another little bit  of a thin layer of soil on top of here  and then we're going to put  the flower power and the color.  Now Pamela Crawford does,  of course she has a book,  which is very helpful, I did get it,  because she goes in there  and tells you exactly the method  and how to plant these  and she gives you plant suggestions,  plants that she has found in her experience  that maybe do really well on the side  because some plants do better on the top  than they do on the side.  Some just do not do well in the side at all.  So what we're going to do  for our big flower power on the top  is the Super Bells Grape Punch.  Really the grape punch is what inspired  this whole container for me  because this spring I saw them growing  and they were gorgeous and I loved them  and I wanted to use them in a container.  So with these guys,  you're not going to plant them  because they have such extensive  root systems in here.  You're not going to be able  to plant them like this.  You're basically going to plant them  on their side,  which works well because Super Bells  hate to be wet.  They hate to have wet feet.  So we're just going to go in here,  lay them down,  snug them between the other root systems  as you can,  and just really kind of push them down in here.  Now again,  I ran out of plants.  So I didn't have enough of the grape punch  that I have in there.  So what we're going to do  is we're going to alternate  with the Super Bell Double Blue.  Same color palette,  but it'll be a little bit  of a different texture  because it is a double bloom.  I think it'll be a sweet little addition.  So I'm going to alternate  between grape punch  and double blue.  Had to think for a minute.  All right,  so I'm just going to put those in there.  Okay,  so there's six total in here.  She actually calls for 12.  I don't know how in the world  you'd fit 12 of them in here.  So we're just going to go with six  and then we're going to go with the centerpiece.  I'm going to go with the Diamond Snow  because it'll get that nice tight white mound.  Pamela says that caladiums work great  and white caladiums would be gorgeous.  But when I planted the first one there,  the caladium simply weren't ready.  It was still too cool.  Caladiums are now ready,  but I kind of wanted to keep it  a little bit consistent.  So we're going to tuck it in there as such  and then backfill with soil.  It's not going to take a lot  because there's so many roots in here.  Obviously, you're going to have to water  the top basket part a little bit more  than what you would the bottom  because the bottom is going to have  a lot more of a soil reservoir  and will hold on to the moisture fertilizer  a lot more.  So what we're going to do  is get the soil in there.  Because we are using our professional soil,  this is not the Proven Winners,  there's absolutely no fertilizer in here.  I'm going to go ahead and sprinkle  the slow-release on the top  so that way it'll work itself down  every time we water.  It will be fertilized.  Obviously, this is going to be  a full, full sun spot.  Right now, the clouds have graced us  with their presence.  Otherwise, this would be sun up to sun down.  I'm going to go ahead and get some mulch on here  and then this top part will be done.  Rolling, rolling, rolling.  Okay, the top part is planted.  Now we're going to start on the bottom.  Now the bottom part is really fun.  Again, I'm going to have to make a substitution  because I do not have any Supertunia Bordeaux.  It flew out of here.  So we're going to use a bunch of Royal Velvet.  To begin with, around the pole,  we're going to use  the Angel Face Super White Angelona.  These are nice and big.  I went ahead and used four around the pole  in the last one.  Basically, we're just going to go in  and do the four corners.  I know that I need to add soil here,  but for right now, it's okay  because the plants will just sit on top.  Then as I plant, I will add the soil in there.  You'll notice, and I like to do  front to back, side to side.  That way I know my spacing is right.  So we get four of these guys in here.  These will branch out and get nice and thick  as they grow.  You can see, I mean, obviously,  back there, they're loving life.  If you have some that start to get  a little too leggy and long  and start to kind of flop over  like some of mine are doing,  just go ahead and cut them back.  It's all right.  Pruning on a plant is a good thing.  It will actually help you branch out  and get thicker, stronger stems.  I've already cut some of those.  After today or this afternoon,  I will probably go ahead and cut some more.  So basically, I have surrounded the pole  with the Angel Phase Super White.  I'm going to go ahead, add some more soil  to this and get in there between your roots.  Remember, you don't want any air pockets  between your roots.  That is not good.  And even though this is a very large container,  you will notice, what did I do?  Did I add anything to the bottom to take up space?  No.  You want to use all soil  because your soil holds your water.  Your soil holds your fertilizer.  You can't, packing peanuts, pine cones,  plastic water bottles do not hold moisture  and they do not hold food.  So do not put that in the bottom of your pots.  It's a no-no.  I know you think in the long run,  it's going to save you money,  but it actually hurts your plants.  So don't do that.  Now, what we're going to do is come in here  with three Diamond Frost Euphorbia.  Now, I debated on whether or not  to actually put these guys in this pot.  They're in the other pot,  but you can't see them  because everything else took over.  But there are little teeny tiny little pockets  of Euphorbia sticking out.  So I said, well, we're just going to go for it anyway  and we're going to stick them in there.  I'm only doing three.  So whereas my Angel Face were more of a square,  this is going to be a little bit of a triangle.  And as you can tell,  everything just kind of blends together eventually.  So you don't have to worry an extreme amount  as far as like the exact spacing  because they all just go together and yeah,  they get very happy.  I'm wearing a white shirt today,  which normally I would not wear a white shirt  when I'm planting,  but this is a fun one.  This is one that Christine made us  and on the back it says,  life is too short for minimum spacing.  I mean, that certainly applies to this container, right?  Normally I don't follow that theory,  but on this container, I am.  Life's too short for minimum spacing.  Here we go.  Now, what we're going to do is go around the bottom  and I've got more of my white licorice  that's going to go in there.  I have got Royal Velvet Super Junior  that is going to go in there.  I will double this up because I don't have any more dough.  And then my last one that I'm going to use  is the Sparkling Amethyst Verbena  because they're going to be gorgeous.  They're going to fill in.  So what I'm going to do is just go around  and basically alternate plants,  one then the other,  fill it in with some soil,  and then we'll go from there.  There we go. 