 So, how do we get clients?  Before we get into the how, we first need to answer the who.  So who are our clients?  In order to do that, let's discuss the food chain in the motion design industry.  On the top of the food chain are direct clients.  These are clients or companies that has a problem to solve.  It may be that their product isn't getting enough attention or there's low sales or  any business problem that you can think of.  And on the next, on the line in the food chain are agencies.  You see, if a client has a problem, a business problem, let's say a marketing problem, what  they do is they go to agencies to help solve that problem.  So what are these agencies?  The agencies are companies that do branding, do strategy, do marketing.  So it's a big overview, they do a lot of things in that space.  If you have seen a marketing campaign in YouTube or in Facebook, it's most likely that agencies  are behind that.  It's agencies that made those ads, those marketing campaigns possible.  So what would happen if the agency needs a video as part of their strategy for their  client?  And what if they don't have an internal team to do that video?  So what they do is they go to motion design studios.  They hire motion design studios to do that one piece that they need to do for their client.  So we are a motion design studio, and what happens if the video project has a very big  scope and this motion design studio doesn't have enough resources?  What they do is they look for a much smaller motion design studio that could help them.  It's going to be more of a collaboration.  So actually we are in that part of the food chain, we are a small motion design studio.  So if this motion design studio or motion design studios as a whole has on-staff motion  designers, animators, designers, illustrators, storyboard artists as part of their team,  but what if they don't have enough manpower?  What do they do?  They hire freelancers.  So that's the overview, that's the food chain in the motion design industry.  So we have clients that are direct clients, we also have clients that are agencies, and  we also have clients that are a much bigger studio than us.  So what happens or the situation of when we are hired by agency is that the agency have  a client, and we don't have access to the client, we have access to the agency, we work  with the agency, and the agency is the one that works with the client.  So what happens if we are hired by a much bigger studio is that that bigger studio was  hired by an agency, and the agency was hired by the client.  So we don't have access to the agency, we also don't have access to the client, in that  case, we only have access to the bigger studio, we communicate and collaborate with the bigger  studio.  So that is the overview of the food chain, and I hope you now get a bigger picture of  what this looks like. 