 All the world's a stage.  El mundo es un gran teatro.  The whole world is a stage.  El mundo es un gran teatro.  The whole world is a stage.  I think it's given our staff a great toolkit for learning.  I think Shakespeare is important for young people  because young people have really creative minds and creative ideas  and Shakespeare provides a sort of outlet for them.  What our actors do is that they're speaking it out loud  and they're constantly questioning it  and they're engaging with the sound of the words, the physicality of those words.  We can learn so much from his plays and works in general  about humanity and human emotions  and his plays provide words of wisdom to our generation  and are really inspirational  and he also taught us how to be creative to achieve success.  Once you've started, it's very hard to go back and look at Shakespeare  or explore Shakespeare in any other way.  The conversations we had afterwards with some of the students  was really very insightful about how that made them feel,  how it excited them, how they felt that it was like history coming to life  or what it was like to be Juliet in that moment  and how difficult some of these decisions were  and how that connected with their life.  There is also another set of skills that it really embodies  to do with kind of collaboration, to do with teamwork  and to do with feeling that your voice is as important  as anyone else's voice in the space  and knowing that you can have a relationship with a 400-year-old playwright  that isn't about receiving the advice,  that isn't about giving the advice,  and have a relationship with a 400-year-old playwright  that isn't about receiving the information from him  but is about what you think he was doing,  whether you think it was wrong or right  and what it might mean to your context in which you meet it.  This kind of active on its feet CPD is,  I'm going to suggest it's a whole lot more engaging  and a whole lot more fun than a lot of the CPD  that you might otherwise experience.  That in turn kind of invigorates and energises teachers  that kind of, I think it helps them to tap back in  to why they became teachers in the first place.  I think it's a great tool to allow students  to explore that creative side of themselves. 