 Hello, everybody, and welcome back to the Theory of Racelessness YouTube channel.  If you'd like to see more, make sure to like and subscribe to our channel and click the  bell icon to get notified every time we post a new video.  To get even more involved, feel free to leave us a comment down below and share your thoughts.  We'd love to hear them.  Now, enjoy the video.  I think that the idea that the impact that race will have on you is sort of the same  thing, only instead of perhaps being a positive influence, like a religious belief can be,  racial identity can be paralyzed, right?  So you can see that, yes, sports do, I think, the biggest, yes, like I said, there's differences  in height in people.  So I don't want to pretend that like, all groups would all be the same, even if I mean,  obviously, there's going to be cultural differences.  But of course, like there are different groups that are going to have different average height  and like different abilities.  But what I think the sports disparity shows us is just how harmful race, like race is  for people.  Once you racialize a trait, you make it almost impossible to achieve for different people.  And I mean, you can make it and, you know, so I do think that the disparity is really  striking.  I just don't think it's showing what they think it shows.  Thank you so much, Tave, for explaining that.  Yeah, it definitely helped crystallize in my mind, because, you know, I was taking pretty  diligent notes throughout.  And the thing that I kept writing down was the sort of steel manning that you were doing  for people who would contend that this particular thing is evidence of race.  I kept writing down that it's still not racial, right?  Even if even the misconception or the sort of myth that comes behind West Africans being  to being the best sprinters still struck me that that's still not racial, because, you  know, if you're racializing everyone who comes from the continent of Africa within a certain  time period, since all of humanity came from Africa.  But within more recent centuries, if you racialize the people who come from Africa as Black,  for something to be racial, it would strike me that it shouldn't be.  We shouldn't be able to pinpoint it to a particular place, right?  True, although I do think a lot of the new races are now willing to cut African hands,  which I don't think is a, I mean, yeah, I agree that that alone should get you to abandon  race the way that we do it.  But some of them, some of them, like, weirdly, like, OK, I'm still going to racialize people,  I'm still going to call people Black and white.  But actually, there's two Blacks.  There's East Africa, there's West Africa.  Those are now two races, Black A, Black B, right?  And they're pretty comfortable in doing that.  And so I'd like to make a point that, no, that doesn't make any sense either, because  the top 100 meter runner in Africa is from Kenya, right?  So, like, the data doesn't say that either.  You're right, that would be a good reason to give up on race.  But people seem to not do that.  They seem to say, OK, fine, there's East and West, two different races, even though I'm  going to call you Black if you're from either one.  But I'm going to say, like, for this talk of sprinting and running, those are two races.  And which is, I think they kind of missed the point there.  But based off of what you're saying, and because I'm just articulating my thoughts to make  sure that you can correct me if I've misinterpreted or misheard of or misconceived of anything  of what you said.  But part of part of what I was thinking, too, is even if people then say, OK, well, West  West African and East African are two different races, that still falls apart to me because  of the thing called diaspora, right?  Because if for something to be racial in the ways that a lot of people try to make things  racial by racializing certain information and outcomes and disparities and things like  that, to my mind, for something to be racial, to actually fit into whatever boxes we create  for anything, it would have to be measurably true, I guess.  I don't know how else to put it.  Measurably true across the board.  And like you were saying, I think one of the strongest points of what you were talking  about was the disparity between the U.S. and virtually every other place, but also a lot  of the places in the Caribbean and then the disparity between Jamaica and virtually everywhere  else, because even that like we could we could say, OK, well, Jamaicans are a race, too.  But but you and I both know in the context of America, people would still say, but it's  still racial because Jamaicans are black, because, you know, they're descended from  Africa and stuff from the Caribbean's that run that believe Jamaicans are a separate  race, that those are the slaves.  And there's a special like the Jamaicans are different.  Yeah.  And they behave so badly.  I mean, this isn't an American, like black, white racialization.  The people do do this and they're serious.  Right.  It sounds crazy.  Like in the context of the U.S., the U.S. is black and white.  No, people think that they're Jamaican, Jamaican.  Yeah.  Yeah.  But but the thing that's that resonates with me and that that like area of discourse about  all of this is the fact that I'm consistently talking with people about, you know, asking  the question of does capital R race, does capital R racism travel?  Because right now there is this narrative that the thing that people call white supremacy  is everywhere, anti-blackness is everywhere.  You know, it's it's global, it's omnipresent, you know, and thereby whoever you are, wherever  you are, if you go to a place where there are mostly racialized white people, then you  will experience the thing.  And if you go a place where there are predominantly racialized black people, white supremacy is  still there because the Europeans were there and all this other stuff that comes along  with that way of thinking.  But one thing that I've I've been exploring and and and uncovering with with my students,  for example, is the fact that we could go to any country at any time period and we could  find racialization happening.  We could find different races, in other words.  And racialization is always bad because like you were you were saying really eloquently,  there's virtually nothing positive about being racialized if you understand what racialization  is and how it operates in these different places.  In America, we have the black white dichotomy, but in in other places, it's it's what people  in America would conceive to be, though, sort of white versus white or the black versus  black.  But really, it's like different ethnic tribes, you know, warring and things like that within  the same country.  And that's that we could say then that racism exists everywhere because racialization happens  everywhere.  Well, one thing I'm talking about in my second book is the distinct that I think the necessary  distinction between racialization, like, for example, for for Americans to think of  Jamaicans as a different race, I think would be obviously equally pernicious.  But but there's a difference between racialization and ethnicization.  But the difference comes down to how the the biases and oppression and prejudice operate  in different contexts.  And so it looks differently everywhere.  And it's always fascinating to me to hear about hear about this kind of pushback that you  might receive.  And obviously that I receive just as much, too, especially as it pertains to the evidence  that people would uphold and say, this is proof positive that race is biological today.  Yeah.  But then when you try to walk down the path, they make all kinds of justifications.  And concessions and you know, it's just it's the same for you.  The evidence that people use as biological, the biological fact of race is is what color  blindness, what those folks are to the theory of racist.  It's like some people, they don't want to know and they don't want to disbelieve.  They want to they want to feel comfortable in their worldview because it serves them  in whatever capacity.  But but the strength of your argument and the and what I'm really happy to have a better  understanding of, I think, boils down to a couple of things, which is namely for something  to be racial.  It it strikes me that that we we should not be able to like pinpoint it to a certain place  if, you know, whether we pinpointed to Jamaica or whether we pinpointed to Kenya or whether  we pinpointed just in West Africa, more broadly speaking, or East Africa.  Some people want to say distance runners derived from what you say is not factually true.  It's not actually true that sprinters don't derive from Kenya.  Yeah, right.  Kenya's history in marathoning in long distance is pretty incredible.  They're also good at sprinting.  Mm hmm.  So it's I mean, they're not the only so North Africa has a history of being like it's weird  that North Africa has a history of like the like middle distance, like not the really  long, not the really short for some reason.  Right.  And then East Africa has this big history of very, very long running like the marathon.  But it's also the marathon is it sucks.  And if you want to run the marathon, right.  So it's like if there's a culture that adopts it.  Right.  I mean, I said there's one famous Jamaican marathon, right.  And he's a Jamaican and he's fine.  I mean, he's he's like a world class marathoner.  But I mean, everyone was like, what are you doing, man?  We don't do that.  And it's like that nobody wants to run 26 miles with you.  Right.  So it's like it's a hard thing to do on your own.  He wants to be a marathoner.  Right.  So Kenya already has a tradition of being a marathon.  Right.  So they already do that.  So they and that's one of those things where it's not fun.  So like, it's going to be get that up and going.  If you're in a country where people don't do that, like, how do you convince them to  be first, you know?  So, yeah, yeah.  No, I mean, there's fast runners all over Africa in every country, different distances.  I mean, but, you know, there's fast runners are like all over the world, you know, like  there really are.  And it's it's it's a it's a strange thing to.  But yeah, you can see that race has its biggest effect, you know, and how people think of  themselves.  I mean, that is the biggest it does, because most people aren't going to be the best.  Right.  Like no matter what your race is, you're not going to be the best.  Yeah.  Right.  I mean, that's just the numbers say that genetically you're not you probably are  fated not to be the best.  That's that's just how it is.  Right.  So it's just, you know, anything to make that that brutal fact even worse is only going  to take that away from you.  But you can see, like when you go to Jamaica, like the people that they run, you know, like  you go there and make the the amount of running that they do is incredible.  And also the amount of cultural capital that they put towards sprinting is incredible.  Right.  So like for them, they don't have the Super Bowl, but they have like the high school  track championships.  Thanks for watching.  Make sure to like, comment and subscribe to support our channel and keep the conversation  going.  For more Theory of Racelessness, you can follow us on Twitter at Racelessness or use the link  in the description box down below.  We hope you enjoyed this video.  And as always, there is still so much more to come.  Until then, thank you so much from the Theory of Racelessness.  Have a great day. 