 Welcome to the MCAT Multimedia Series and to MCAT's Introduction to Anthropology.  Anthropology is the study of people and their cultures. Its roots stretch back more than a  thousand years to exotic travelers' tales imagining strange societies and peoples whose behavior  fascinated early explorers. But scholars began this serious study of human culture  only late in the 19th century. Early anthropologists studied customs and beliefs in  pre-industrial societies in the hope of opening windows onto their own pasts  in order to explain how institutions like religion or the family had come to be.  Some of the texts that emerged during this period continue to be influential.  Among them, Marcel Mauss' book The Gift, which argued that gifts, far from being free,  create complex bonds of reciprocal obligation that help to underpin cultures.  It was not until the early 20th century, though, that anthropology began to focus heavily on  ethnography, the intensive long-term fieldwork that has become its best-known tool.  Franz Boas in the United States and Bronislaw Malinowski in Britain rejected much of their  predecessors' work as speculation and insisted on living among the people they studied and talking  to them in their own languages. The questions asked by anthropology got more ambitious, too.  Rather than trying to understand how institutions developed over time, scholars began to ask how  they fitted together to create a functioning society. This is the structural functionalist  tradition, perhaps best exemplified by E.E. Evans Pritchard's Witchcraft, Oracles, and Magic,  a book which demonstrated that belief in witchcraft made perfect sense  when understood as a way of keeping order in society.  Human culture is complex, and anthropology quickly developed into a number of specializations.  Political anthropology questioned the assumptions of global politics,  as when James Ferguson issued his challenge to the international development industry  in The Anti-Politics Machine and showed that aid is often directed to meet political goals  rather than human needs. Medical anthropology explores differing experiences of medicine  and disease. And Victor Turner, in The Ritual Process, explored the power of symbols through  the performance of religious ceremonies. Feminist anthropology, too, has asked  fundamental questions about the ways in which we understand society.  Lila Abulugad wonders why Western academics see the clothes worn by Muslim women as symbols of  subjugation rather than acceptance of a moral system, and why they expect Afghans to cast  aside their burqas when they themselves would never wear a pair of shorts to an opera.  The 1960s saw further advances in anthropological theory, beginning with Claude Lévi-Strauss'  ambitious attempts to study cultures as structures of human thought.  His book Structural Anthropology drew on a model derived from linguistics  to introduce what became known as structuralism, the theory that cultures are built on hidden  underpinnings formed from human perceptions and activity,  and the idea that all of these are constructs that are packed with meaning.  A decade later, Clifford Gertz advanced another idea. His The Interpretation of Cultures suggested  that cultures should not be studied scientifically and in search of laws,  but interpretively, by scholars in search of meaning.  This fresh thinking forced a re-examination of much ethnographic fieldwork, but it also  liberated anthropology from a focus on the reproduction of culture that had made it  blind to social change.  Johannes Fabian's Time and the Other provides an example of anthropologists radically rethinking  the ways in which they approach the people whom they study. Fabian pointed out how easy  it was to fall into the trap of writing about people as if they inhabited not just another  place, but another time. His work helped to inspire the development of historical anthropology,  and texts like Eric Wolff's Europe and the People Without History, which gave voice to  people whose stories had formerly been ignored.  Today, anthropologists still seek new ways to re-evaluate old problems and apply ethnographic  methods to modern people in a rapidly changing and globalizing world.  We'll introduce you to anthropologists' past and present, and to the endlessly fascinating  world of human culture. Come inside to find out more.  MCAT. Learn Better. Think Smarter. Aim Higher. 