 Today we are going to talk about the development of human personality, right.  First of all we should define what is personality.  You know all of you have the concept that different people have different types of personality  and everyone has a unique way of thought patterns, emotional patterns and behavioral patterns,  right.  So I have my own ways of thought patterns, behavioral patterns and emotional patterns  which are more or less consistent over the time, right.  So all my thought patterns and my behavioral patterns and my emotional patterns put together  defines my personality.  Now the question is that that why different people have different personality.  All of you must be knowing that all of you do not have same personality.  Why all of you have different personality?  The main reason is that that we are primarily driven by our unconscious mind.  Let me tell you by an example.  Let us suppose there is same situation and under same circumstances do you think all  of you behave in the same way?  What do you think?  My question is under same circumstances do you think all of you behave in the same way  or slightly different way?  Different way.  Why?  May be present circumstances are same for all of you but why would you behave in a different  way?  The reason being that our mind are having lot of information about our emotional patterns,  behavioral patterns, right and about our thought patterns and everyone has those patterns different  from each other.  Now from where those patterns come?  Why under the same circumstances we behave in a different way?  If you ask Sigmund Freud this question, he will say different people behave under the  same circumstances in different way because they have different unconscious mind.  Now the question is that what is unconscious mind, right?  Okay, I will start asking you certain questions.  This lecture is going to be an interactive lecture and by your answers we will deduct  certain things.  According to Freud, he says if all your mental activity is put into a container, suppose  from Mr. Ozturk, we take all his mental life, mental activity, all his thoughts, all his  dreams, all his fantasies, all his memory, all his experiences, everything from his mental  life we put into this container, right?  This container is having his all mental life past and present.  Now what really happens that Freud says that there are three layers of the mind.  One is very superficial layer.  Some information is present in very superficial layer of mental life and most of the things  are in deeper layer.  I will ask him certain questions and let's see how he answers.  Mr. Ozturk, do you know where you are present right now?  You are sitting in a hospital or lecture room or you know it.  You know who are the people around you?  But you know some idea.  Most of them are medical students or doctors.  You are knowing where in the world you are?  You know it?  Okay.  So he is aware of his self, he is aware of his surroundings, right?  And all this information is present in his superficial layer.  And this superficial layer of mental activity in which all present aware, awareness is present,  we call it conscious mind.  So what is conscious mind?  Conscious mind is that layer of the mental activity about which we are right now very  much aware.  You know who you are, you know where you are, you know who are the people around you.  All this activity is in which layer?  Conscious layer of your mind.  But there are certain other thoughts or fantasies or mental activity which are in deeper layer  of the mind and right now you may not be aware of that activity.  Again listen, right now there is some mental activity and some thought or fantasy experiences  are present in your mind which are not right now in your conscious layer.  For example, I ask a question to this man, do you remember the first girl you fell in  love with?  You remember her?  Good.  Were you thinking about that girl right now?  Before I ask question, were you thinking about that very girl?  You were right now thinking about that girl?  Okay he started blushing.  I think we should go to some person who is less reactive about his first girlfriend.  Okay let's go to Mr. Oztok.  I hope he ever had a girlfriend.  So Oztok do you remember that lady with whom you fell in love first time in your life?  Yes I do, but I wasn't thinking about her.  Okay he make it clear, he says yes there was a lady and I was in love with her but he says  right now he was not thinking about that very lady.  It means all his memories or experiences or fantasies about that lady were not present  in his conscious mind but with little effort he could bring those information to the conscious  mind.  Is that right?  If I ask you that you have done your high school from which country?  Puerto Rico.  But before I asked you question, were you thinking about that?  No but when I asked you question with little mental effort you brought the information  to conscious level.  So what really happens that below this conscious layer there is another layer of all mental  activity in which there is lot of information present and from here you can bring the information  up to superficial layer.  You have lot of memories, lot of thoughts, lot of feelings present into this deeper layer  and with a little effort you can bring this information here.  For example if I asked you how you got admission in UNIBE, can you answer that?  You remember somehow what was the process?  How you got admission in your medical school or you don't remember at all?  You do remember right?  Why?  Because that information you can take from here up to here.  So this layer of the mind from where you can take the information up to conscious level,  this layer of the mental activity is called pre-conscious.  What it is called?  Pre-conscious.  Pre-conscious.  So now we have talked about two layers of mental life.  This most superficial layer of mental life, that is about your conscious layer.  In conscious layer you are only thinking about present, who you are, where you are, what  you are doing, is that right, what is the time, you are aware of all these things.  That is your conscious mental activity.  But with little effort you can bring some information from your past up to your present  awareness.  And this layer which has past experiences, past feelings and past fantasies, and these  all information can be brought to the conscious layer.  So this layer is called pre-conscious.  Is that clear?  Now we go to the real, real, real mind.  There is a very deep area there.  I think I removed this part.  Below the conscious layer and pre-conscious layer, there is a dark area.  Because there is some information here, you cannot bring it here.  For example, I ask you a question, when you were about six months old, there must have  been a time when you were tiny six month old, and you were crying, you were very hungry.  Do you remember there was one Friday and you were very small six month old baby and you  were very hungry and you were crying and your mother did not attend you immediately.  Do you remember that?  No.  No.  Okay.  Then you remember another Sunday when you were about eight months old and you were very  hungry and your mother immediately started breastfeeding you?  You don't remember?  He is telling a lie.  Actually his conscious and pre-conscious mind does not remember.  This deeper layer of the mind remembers everything.  Every experience which happens in your life, every feeling you have and every fantasy you  have, that is present in your unconscious mind, the deepest layer.  There is a lot of information present in deeper layers of the mind and this information which  is present at this layer, you cannot bring up to conscious mind with simple efforts.  Let me tell you.  Let us suppose one of you had a very good mother and who was the mother who was taking  care of the person very good, feeding him properly, changing the diapers in time and  emotionally keeping the baby very comfortable.  You may not remember but your unconscious mind must be remembering those group of experiences  and because when you were just one year old and if your primary caretaker or mother was  very good to you and she was giving good care to you, at that very time your whole world  was only your primary caretaker.  At that very time your whole world was just your mother.  You never knew at that very time what was happening in other countries, what was happening  in the wars.  You only knew if mother is good, everything is good.  If mother is not good, nothing is good.  You remember that?  Now those times actually you have forgotten but your unconscious mind has not forgotten  those experiences.  Now if you were treated very well during your first year of life, you have been treated  very well, it means that those experiences which are present over here, they are not  forgotten and they are still driving your behavior.  Let me tell you how.  When during first year of your life you have taken good care, you develop a trust to your  mother that whenever you need your mother is there, when you are in trouble your mother  is there, whenever you are hungry your mother is there, whenever you are wet your mother  is there.  So your little unconscious mind thought that whole world is good and as you decided at  that very time your mind started trusting the mother, right?  That those group of experiences are still in unconscious mind and now you are still  carrying those experiences with you.  And now if you need to trust someone, those experiences will help you to make decision  that you should trust or you should not trust.  There are other people who are unfortunately in their first year of life not treated well  and at that very time when they were not treated well, they thought mother is not predictable,  mother is not trustworthy and their unconscious mind with those negative experiences is so  strong that today when they are going to make a deal, their unconscious mind is telling  them not to trust.  Now you may be thinking how our mind can be so fool that project the experiences of  first year of life and mother experiences to the rest of the world.  Answer is that your unconscious mind does not think in a logical fashion.  Your unconscious mind does not think in a logical fashion.  This is number one reality.  Number two logical thinking is conscious mind.  Unconscious mind does not think in a logical fashion.  Then there is another special thing about unconscious mind.  Unconscious mind does not have a concept of past, present and future.  When you are sitting here, you can think about that these are the experiences of my present  life.  You may think there are some experiences which happen in the past.  You may fantasize something about future.  But this all activity is pre-conscious and conscious mind.  The real, the big layer of the mind, the unconscious mind does not have a concept of past, present  and future.  Whatever happened in your past, all information which is present here is not considered as  past experiences.  Unconscious mind keeps them as present.  Another trouble with the unconscious mind.  Unconscious mind cannot differentiate between fantasy and reality.  Unconscious mind cannot differentiate between fantasy and reality.  Is that right?  Whatever you fantasize for your conscious mind, you know it is not real.  But for unconscious mind, it is as real as real experiences.  So what I am telling you about unconscious mind.  It's a big storehouse of information.  All of you have unconscious mind with lot of information.  All your life, whatever good experiences or bad experiences you have, whatever good feelings  you had or bad feelings you had, whatever good fantasies you had or bad fantasies you  had, whatever happened in your past, that is buried in your unconscious.  And many of those things are buried so deep that with your special effort, even by your  effort you cannot bring most of this information to unconscious mind.  So you may think that you have forgotten those things.  But your unconscious has not forgotten those past experiences, past feelings, past fantasies.  It has just buried them.  And it has buried those all experiences, buried them as alive.  Normally we have a concept, we bury something that is dead.  But whatever is buried in your unconscious is not dead, it is buried alive.  And it is still today, right now is working there.  And it is still controlling your decisions of today.  For example, I am the same teacher to all of you.  But do you think all of you like me in the same way or different way?  Different way.  Some of you may like me very much.  Some of you may like me just little bit.  And even some of you may hate me for no good reason.  Why?  May be, problem may be your relationship in the past with your father.  For example, if your father was very good with you in your life, then any other significant  person come in your life, you will try to have positive experiences.  And if you have some very negative experience from your father, you find it difficult even  to adjust with your teachers.  The reason being, you may find that same teacher, you may have the same teacher but  all of you may have different feelings about him.  Problem is not with the teachers.  The difference is in your unconscious previous experiences.  Of course, some teachers are good because they activate good things of your unconscious  mind.  And some are really not good because they activate really not good things from your  mind.  Right?  But you have to remember that today whatever you did with the people or with yourself,  you say that you did it logically but actually you were controlled by unconscious mind.  And this is the real control of your behavior.  And this real control does not take in a logical way.  That is why sometimes under the same circumstances, people may have different behaviors.  Is that right?  So is that clear to all of you?  That basically personality consists of all your patterns of behavior, your patterns of  emotional life and patterns of your thoughts.  But why different people have different personalities?  Because they have different unconscious mind.  Am I clear?  Now we can move forward.  Now about the development of personality, there are two main people, two main psychologists  who talked about how the personality developed.  One is the, all of you have heard of him, Sigmund Freud, right?  And second is, some of you may have heard him, that he is Eric Erickson.  So I will talk about both of them, how they developed the theories about your mental and  personality development, right?  Again, all your past experiences are buried alive in your unconscious mind and they keep  on influencing your past, keep on influencing your present, right?  Now we will see how the personality start developing, right?  Here I will write the first stage of development from the Eric Erickson.  This is the foundation of personality and gradually will move upward.  This is the first stage of development by the Dr. Eric Erickson.  And here we will start developing the stages according to Sigmund Freud.  Now, first stage of development means first year of life, right?  In the first year of life, according to Freud, the first stage of development is oral stage.  Oral stage.  And then I will explain that stage also.  What is oral stage?  Let me tell you.  When Freud tried to explain the development of human personality, he said that at different  stages of life, early life, different parts of our body become the center of our pleasure.  For example, according to Freud, and even you can observe it, during the first year  of life, baby drives pleasure from which part of the body?  Babies, small babies, six month old baby, or one year, mouth.  Have you seen it?  Small baby has all the pleasure from here.  What he is trying to do?  Whatever he finds, he will put it in his mouth because he wants to get some pleasure.  Actually oral stimulation gives the pleasure to the baby.  According to Freud, this is a special pleasure center during the first year of life.  And whatever you do, you put the baby's hand away, he will put it in.  You put it away, he will put it in again.  All pleasure is coming from his oral area.  Is that right?  And why oral area is so important?  Because for baby, it's the whole world.  From oral area, he gets connected with the mother, who is primary caretaker.  From oral area, baby is going to get the nutrition.  From oral activity, when baby is suckling to the breast, he gets not only nutrition,  but emotional love.  And baby also gets physical support and warmth.  So all baby's pleasure is around oral area.  From where baby discovers oral area, to stimulate the oral area is great.  Because very early experience after birth told baby that whenever something, nipple  come in mouth, baby feels great, well protected, warm, emotionally secure.  Is that right or not?  And nutrition.  So baby thinks that if I'm having pleasure from this area, let me get more and more pleasure.  So when nipple is not there, he'll put his finger in mouth.  Or mothers are clever.  When they are not there, they put some sort of thing, you know, plastic thing in baby's  mouth.  What do you call it?  Right?  Why they put it there?  So that baby remains.  And feeling that I'm having good pleasure.  Something mother-like is there.  Is that right?  So fried cows, their first stage of personality development is oral stage.  Is that right?  You are developing gratification only from oral area.  You may be laughing that what this breastfeeding or oral stimulation has to do with your personality.  It has to do something with your personality.  How?  Because even some people, they remain fixated at this stage.  They don't pass through this stage to the next stage properly.  I will tell you later another area, baby will discover one more area in his own body to  enjoy.  But right now, in first year, he is working on his oral area and feeling great.  Already I told you, whatever experiences you have through oral area during your first  year of life, you may have forgotten, your unconscious mind has never forgotten.  So even today, listen now carefully, even today when you are adult, some of you when  you go under stress, you reverse to your oral phase.  Let me give you an example.  First of all, when you are just six, seven month old and you had some sort of stress,  what do you do?  You cry?  Your mom puts you with her breast, nipple is in your mouth and you feel great.  Your stress is gone.  Is that true or not?  Now you are adult, grown up adult, intelligent, but still your unconscious mind is same.  So some of you even go under stress today, you will reverse to the oral phase.  For example, some of you when you are under stress, what you do?  You eat more.  What you are doing?  You are doing oral gratification.  Some of you may be complaining, you know, I am under stress, I have to eat more.  What you are saying?  I am under stress, I need something like breast and nipple.  Okay, I cannot get it.  Give me lot of rice and few things.  I keep on putting and my unconscious mind will get satisfied.  There is something great coming into this area.  Is that right?  Now you are grown up, everyone has different ways to gratify the oral area, right?  Some of you by eating more under stress, even you have seen, even some of you, I think you  won't be telling others, but sometimes you come across an adult under extreme stress,  he may start thumb-sunkling.  Okay, you mind it, forget about it.  I will tell you a simple example.  Look at the strong men and women who are at the prime of youth, feel very strong, little  bit stressed, they put what is that stick, they call cigarette in their mouth.  And these people who are addicted to cigarettes, if you tell them this is nicotine patch, we  will deliver you as good nicotine, but I think they need something here also.  That gives them relaxation.  You know, they keep cigarette here, feel great, they puff out, again feel great.  Is that right?  That is reversing back to oral stage.  Your unconscious mind is driving you back, controlling you back.  Let's go to that nipple stage and mouth stage.  Let me tell you another example.  Some of you don't smoke, but what you do, when exam come, you put the pencil in your  mouth, what happened to your pencil?  It's not giving you any nutrition.  What is happening?  Your unconscious mind compulsing you, pushing you to put something in mouth, right?  And you are not baby, you don't want to put thumb, so what do you do?  You put pencil.  What is that?  Another way to fight with stress, a proof that unconscious mind is still working in  a very, very primitive behavior, oral gratification, right?  Some of you, you don't like to put dirty pencils in your mouth.  You may love to put a lot of chingum, especially under chewing gum and keep on doing it.  More you stress, more you chew and grind and grind, right?  Oral gratification.  Then, yeah, some of you love the, what is that, oral gratification, one more fixation.  You know, kissing, kissing, lip to lip kissing.  Some of you enjoy less and some of you are willing to die for that.  Why?  Again, it depends on, for example, there is a boy who likes kissing, but he somehow come  across a rare type of girl who likes kissing too much.  What's the problem with them?  There is mismatch on requirement of love through kissing.  Why there is mismatch?  The unconscious are different.  You are understanding?  So oral gratification in adult phases like kissing, even flasho and other activities  which are done orally, oral sex, some of you may be doing a lot and some of you don't  like it.  It depends on what were your early experiences.  Don't hate me for this information.  Like other people, you can also abuse Mr. Segment Fried who discovered this thing for  you, right?  So according to Segment Fried, the first stage of personality development is lying around  your, the area of the mouth from where you get the gratification or player center we  call it, right?  During the same time, when Fried says that baby is developing his all, player around  mouth, Eric Rickson says that baby's personality develop not only on psychosexual activity  but also depends on psychosocial activity.  Fried model is that personality develop on psychosexual activities and Eric Rickson model  is that personality develop on psychosocial interaction.  So when baby is during the first year of life, he is also, he is also doing another important  work.  He is doing some certain very important decision in his mind.  According to Eric Rickson, whenever you are at any special stage of your life, there are  two forces which are producing emotional and social crisis and those mental forces, one  force is positive and other force is negative.  Let me explain.  For example, according to Eric Rickson, during the first year of life, mental activity has  to be centered on two opposite forces.  One force is trust.  During the first year of life, baby has to decide world is trustworthy or not or its  opposite, its opposite negative aspect is mistrust.  Now while baby is enjoying the oral gratification, baby's mind is working on something else.  Baby's mind is working and solving the problem of should the baby trust the people, trust  the world or should not trust the world.  The question is that how baby decides these two things.  This is the challenge, first challenge in baby's life.  The first challenge is that he has to do mental task.  If you think that infants are not working, you are mistaken.  They are also doing very important work.  Their mental work is that they have to decide at first year of life that up to one and a  half year of life, they have to decide the world is trustworthy or not.  And lessons are from that stage which are influencing your decisions today even.  For example, some of you trust easily to the other people and some of you may not trust  even your best friend.  I know some of my friends, they keep on suffering but still keep on trusting.  And there are other people who don't suffer because they don't trust anyone but they don't  have any advantage also because you have to trust in practical life.  But baby's mind has to decide about the trust or mistrust.  Now this is a tension in the small mind of the baby because mothers are not perfect,  they are also human being.  Now when baby during first year of life is totally dependent, baby is totally dependent  on the primary caretaker, when you are totally dependent on other, then you have to trust  them that others will fulfill your needs, other people will go with their promise.  For example, a very small baby, just six month old or eight month old, his mind is working  all the time that I am a dependent person, I cannot go and make milk, I cannot change  my diaper, I cannot control temperature of the room, so primary caretaker is going to  Can I trust my mother or primary caretaker for my needs or not?  For example, if mother is very caring, very loving, if she has been giving you nutrition  properly, emotional need properly, changing your diapers, controlling the temperature,  keeping you safe and comfortable, what you think?  The small mind think initially my primary caretaker is good, it's trustworthy, whenever  I am in trouble, I just give a signal of cry and usually she is there.  The small mind start thinking that I should trust and of course sometimes mother is mother  and human also, she is not there in time and you cry a lot and if she does not come, you  are thinking oh, I cannot trust much.  Now all the first year of baby life, mind is struggling between trust or not to trust.  This is the mental tension, this is the mental challenge and this is the foundation of the  personality, the decision which will be made at this time.  If primary care taking has been good, then a balance will be achieved that baby will  believe that most of the time world is mother is trustworthy but because this message is  learned by the unconscious mind and I told you unconscious mind is not logical, you are  still carrying that unconscious mind but that is not logical.  Unconscious mind as you grow up, initially it thinks okay, mother is great, mother is  trustworthy, actually for you, mother represents the whole world.  So as you grow up, you start believing the whole world, even under worst circumstances,  you think I can trust human race, I can trust the external world, somehow things will get  better and if you resolve in the positive fashion, you get a very very special strength  in your personality and if unfortunately due to sad experiences of first year of life,  you resolve in this direction, you will put a very strong weakness in your life.  Now, the baby who has resolved this in a positive way and decided that world is trustworthy  in spite of sometimes my mother is not there to serve me immediately but eventually she  comes, so baby believes in that he can trust and when you can trust the world, a special  personality strength comes to you, that is the reward of this mental work in a positive  way.  Who knows that reward?  That reward is hope.  The strength which develops in the baby's personality is hope.  What is hope?  Hope is a situation when even if mother sometimes fail to give the service, baby has a hope  she will eventually come and when that baby grow up as an adult, sometimes life become  very hard, things look very dark and bleak, still your unconscious mind is saying you  should be hopeful and the person who is hopeful, he will do more effort and eventually come  out of troubles.  Now, let me tell you an example.  Let's suppose in your class, there is a girl and there is a boy and let's suppose that  boy has a very unfortunately early negative experiences, right?  So he does not have strength of hope in his personality, what will happen to that boy?  Little bit, he fail once, he will become hopeless.  If he fail once in his exams, he will become hopeless, when he will become hopeless, next  time he will not study much because if you are hopeless, will you study?  Then again you will fail or if you have this weakness in your love relationship, you have  some disappointment and after the disappointment, if you are on this side, you will become hopeless  very soon, you will not pursue your love relations and you will lose them but you will come across  some people who have this strength in their personality, even in their love relation or  in their financial situation or in their professional career, they have a big setback.  Even after the setback, their unconscious mind is telling them, you see, I know you  are having stress, you are having disappointment, somehow things will become okay.  So that person will still keep on following the relationship, even it is going bad.  So you see, the way your mother treated during your early years, that is still reflecting  the way you behave today with the people and in your professional situations and in  your financial situations.  Under the same circumstances, some people are more hopeful and other people are less  hopeful.  It is not the circumstances, it is also depending upon how you were treated when you were totally  dependent on one human being.  If that human being was good for you, the whole universe is good.  Let me tell you an extreme example.  Have you heard of revolution of France?  There was a lot of bloodshed that during the revolution of France, the lower class people  right and middle class people, they had revolution against the elite class, upper class and they  started killing everyone around.  Of course, for the people who are in the upper class, that was a time during the revolution  to be hopeful or hopeless?  Hopeless.  Hopeless.  But there is a true story there.  They say, there was one of the very rich French elite person, very decent and loving person.  When revolution came, the revolutionary people, they killed most of his staff members and  his friends and then they killed his children, killed his wife, killed his parents but he  somehow ran away.  He ran away and eventually he was caught and he was killed.  When he was also killed by gluten, at that very time, from his pocket they brought a  letter out.  Do you know what he has written just a night before?  He has written to the French people that I know my mother and father have been killed.  I know my brothers and my sisters have been killed, my children have been killed.  I know I will be killed very soon but somewhere I feel good in spite of these circumstances  because it is good for France that middle class and upper class, middle class and lower  class people should feel the strength.  They are angry now with us.  After few years, they will be less angry and they will feel more free and they will contribute  more for the goodwill of France.  So even in those circumstances, he was hopeful.  Probably a lot of credit should go to his mother and you will find some people, even  their little problem, their car goes out of order and they think whole life is hopeless.  I think we have to prove what happened when they were three months old, right?  That is the time you develop that either you will have what is your quota of hope, strength  of hope.  That is the first cornerstone in the development of human personality.  Person with strong personality should be able to trust others even though he is realistic  that he can be fooled but still he should be able to trust people with little mistrust  and under even extreme circumstances, he should remain hopeful.  Is that right?  Now let's suppose baby has resolved this stage.  Baby has resolved this stage.  Now baby is one and a half year or two year old.  When baby is two year old, new challenge will come.  This problem is solved.  New challenge will come.  Another mental task baby has to do.  What is the next mental task?  That we'll talk here.  What is the second mental task of the baby?  This first task was from up to 18 months and it is from 18 months up to the second stages  36 months up to three years.  There is another mental task.  With that there is another phase, developmental phase on the fright side.  I will go to that later.  First come here.  Baby is now about two year old.  He has enjoyed his oral activity a lot.  Then he discovers there is another area in his body, a special area to drive the player.  What is the next area baby will drive the player?  Tongue.  Yeah.  Tongue.  Babies are not that sexual.  So anal activity.  Babies suddenly develop a special interest in his or her anus.  Now why they develop special interest in their anus?  Actually they suddenly come to know that they are not totally dependent on the world.  There are certain things they can control.  For example, they can control their own sphincter.  And they say it's a great thing.  Yeah, everyone likes to grow.  He also likes to grow from totally dependent situation to semi-independent.  So first discovery baby feel great that I can control my sphincters.  The problem is that around that parents start toilet training.  Now babies start developing the player around anal area.  And he try to control his anal activity.  For example, if baby does not want to pass the fecal matter, he will control it.  Sometimes baby gives so much value to their activity of the sphincter that they take pride  in that.  And mothers know sometimes baby put their product on something and bring to mother to  eat.  If mother is not cooperative, they put in their own mouth.  Yeah, these are the true things.  He is very proud.  This is the first time he has a control at least on himself.  Small baby never had it.  So his next area of player is anal activity.  And Freud call this stage of development, anal development of personality.  Anal stage of development.  So baby has gone from oral stage to anal stage.  Is that right?  Hence according to Eric Erickson, baby is also doing some mental activity at the same  time.  Now what is the second mental activity?  That is autonomy.  Baby feel somewhat autonomous versus shame and doubt, right?  Now in the second stage, the mental decision is that baby has to decide, is the baby fully  autonomous or he should have a feeling of shame and doubt.  Let me tell you.  How baby feel autonomous?  Now baby can move around.  Do you think 6 month old baby can move around?  No.  But 2 year old baby can move around.  He feel autonomous independent.  He can control his sphincters.  He can release his material.  He feels autonomous somewhat.  Is that right?  Here is around anal activity.  At this phase, now mental task is that baby has to decide to himself how much autonomous  baby is.  And mother or primary caretaker around that time is doing toilet training for the baby.  Now look at the situation.  You know baby has started controlling his sphincters but there is no perfect control.  Sometimes he does mistakes also.  Is that right?  You know.  Now if toilet training is very tight, you know some mothers, especially the first baby,  mothers don't have experience with raising baby, especially with the first baby, mothers  become very active in toilet training.  They wanted their child should have very perfect control of the sphincter as soon as possible.  Is that right?  And if there is over control on this stage, right, baby feels more autonomous.  Opposite to that, there are other baby, again, if baby does a mistake, for example, he passes  his fecal matter or urine in the bed, mother become extremely angry and punishes the baby.  Then baby is harshly treated at this stage.  Babies should not be harshly treated.  I will tell you what is the problem if you harshly treat the baby at this stage.  For example, baby is not perfect.  He is just feeling he is autonomous and whenever he thinks his autonomy fails, he feels in  his personality shame and doubt about his own personality.  For example, baby does not want to pass fecal matter but somehow it goes out.  Baby also feels shame and doubt and if mother beat him and very hard or punish, he will  feel very much shame and doubt.  That shame and doubt will stay all his life with him.  I told you unconscious, baby may forget but his unconscious mind will not forget that  experience.  So, what really happens that baby has to experience, decide a balance between autonomy and shame  and doubt.  Autonomy mean you have a choice of decision.  Shame and doubt that sometimes you make stupid decisions.  Is that right?  Another example.  For example, baby want to move around and show to mother that I am autonomous.  Very commonly around the two years of age, the favorite word of the baby is, who knows  the favorite word babies love to say to their elders, no.  If you ask two-year-old baby to sit down, no, I want to stand and you ask him keep standing,  no, I want to sit.  What he is trying to do, he is trying to show his muscles, emotional muscles that he has  his autonomous decisions, he is not under your control.  This personality is opening up another aspect.  If you are good and wise parents, you will be firm with the baby but with some tolerance.  Sometimes you will tolerate his innocence, no.  But if you beat him, if you are harsh and punish him, then he will feel whenever I exercise  autonomy I suffer.  So, he will develop shame and doubt for his own decisions and shame and doubt on his capabilities.  Is that right?  Now, we were talking about basically second stage, autonomy versus shame.  And the major task for baby was, what was the major task at this stage?  Toilet training.  Toilet?  Training.  Training.  And at first stage, what was the major task?  Feeding.  Right?  During the toilet training phase, if baby is over-trained and harshly trained, that  will also produce pathology.  You know what is the pathology?  What is the pathology?  Those babies become obsessive-compulsive, OCD babies, then they develop an adult.  If you are very harshly, unduly harshly toilet-trained, all your life, not only your anal sphincters  become tight, I think your moral and social sphincters also become tight.  Yes?  People become more unduly moralistic.  They start passing judgment on others.  They want everything to be perfect.  Because these were their mothers, they wanted perfect control on the sphincters.  So because they were harshly punished for their sphincter failures, so themselves they  got very tight control on their sphincter.  But that affects their whole personality.  When they grow up, they want perfection in everything.  They are obsessed with their times.  They are obsessed with their schedules.  They are obsessed with their programs.  If any program changes, they get very disturbed.  Right?  They are very much concerned with the list of the things.  And if anything is short, their whole world falls apart.  Is that right?  They are poorly trained.  And they are having very strong moral values, whatever values they have.  And they always keep on passing judgments on others.  Do you think this is a pleasant personality to work?  No.  So usually the first child, not always, but usually the first child is trained very harshly  and with a lot of precision by the mother.  So these babies, when they grow up, they want to be very responsible, very much on time,  everything according to the schedule.  Is that right?  And looking perfection in themselves and also looking perfection in others.  They're not fun to be with them.  There's no fun to be with them.  Opposite to that, usually if a mother has five children, by fourth, fifth child, mother  has known that even if she's not so hard on the baby, somehow sphincters start working  on the baby with little delay.  And mother doesn't care because she has learned with the time that even if she's not very  hard on toilet training, somehow baby's sphincter start working.  Then those babies have opposite problem because they don't have much training.  They are messy in their life also.  You go to their room, everything is messed up.  Let's suppose, I tell you the situation, there's one person extremely tight toilet training,  other no toilet training, little toilet training.  The first person, when he's going to study, he want every paper in a proper way, all the  colors of the pencil put in a special way.  And I think he's going to study for one hour, but to make, put the things in order, he will  make maybe two hours.  Opposite to that, the other person, he's going to study, first he will take a book and throw  it there, then throw another paper there, throw pencils there, then he will mess up  with the bed, then he will start studying a little.  You are getting it?  Is it clear?  These people are not having strong moral judgments on them and they don't have strong moral judgments  on others.  You are getting it?  They are sort of relaxed, happy, good, lucky type of people.  So your toilet training has to do a lot the way you behave today.  Is that right?  Now, after that, the next stage, okay, what is the fruit of this stage?  If you resolve it positively, because baby mind is struggling with autonomy versus shame  and doubt.  If this is successfully resolved, what is the fruit of this stage?  What is the reward?  What is the strength to the baby personality?  The baby will develop the willpower and determination, right?  Baby will develop the willpower and determination.  Do you think all of us have the same level of willpower and determination?  No.  All of you are given the same challenge today.  Some of you will have strong willpower to resolve because it's not enough to have autonomy.  Once you have autonomy, then you should have willpower.  Is that right?  So why many of us have different level of willpower and determination, it depends on  how you were treated there, how you resolve this mental task.  Now another thing, if you are developing positive traits on this side, upper stages become easy.  For example, a baby who resolved it on the trust side and hope, the baby who developed  the strength of hope in his personality, that baby find it easy to develop will and  determination because such people who have the foundation of the hope in their personality,  whenever they go into trouble, because they are hopeful, so they will work hard to come  out of that situation.  And with repeated experiences, they will know more we work hard, more better results they  get in the practical life and their willpower and determination progressively become weaker  or stronger?  Stronger.  But opposite to that, a person, unfortunately the foundation is wrong and he develop a personality  which doesn't have much hope in stressful circumstances, do you think a person who cannot  very easily become hopeless in troubles, can that person have strong willpower and determination?  No.  Because willpower and determination is based on hope.  If you are hopeless about your studies, will you have determination to study?  No.  But if you are hopeful in spite of your bad grades, if you are hopeful, then you have  determination to improve your scores and improve your grades.  Is that clear?  Now we go to the next stage.  Here is fried situation, next stage of development and there is array correction.  According to fried, the area of player shift to another area now, now maybe discover another  area of player.  Yes, Mr. Austak, what is that area now?  Oh my god, he is obsessed with tongue, I don't know what's wrong with his development.  There are other things to enjoy, my friend.  You have enjoyed oral stage, you have had the player of the anal stage, now there is  something other in your body to enjoy.  Why don't you talk about your penis?  Yes.  Around this time, baby suddenly discover, why I am so obsessed with oral activity, let's  enjoy the genitalia.  Suddenly baby discover that by stimulating the genital area, there is a lot of player  and you know whatever gives you player, you do it again and again.  So babies are like you or maybe you are like babies.  So what happened that we call this, fried called this stage phallic stage, phallic stage  of personality development.  I don't know why he was developing personality around such thing but anyway, he said that  once you have gone successfully through oral stage and anal stage, baby's center of player  will now shift to his or her genitalia.  Is that right?  Let me tell you, it's very important stage and you have to resolve it very carefully.  Rather baby has to, child has to resolve.  Do you think you want this stage to be discussed first or that stage?  There, you know, here baby is busy with his special new center of happiness and there  baby mind is busy in some other mental achievement to develop the personality, right?  Now next challenge is in the baby, initiative versus guilt, initiative versus guilt and  both stages are hand in hand.  Now here first baby developed the hope in a positive way, then he developed will and  determination.  Baby was capable of trusting the world.  He has also felt he has some autonomy that he can move around, he can grab the things,  he can control his sphincter.  If he is angry, he can pass it out something, right?  Now he decides some initiative.  By the time his mind is going to decide about initiative and guilt, his center of player  comes around phallic stage.  This is in boys and if I forget, remind me how the girls pass through this stage.  Now around this time, what is the age of the baby now?  That is preschooler, 3 to 6 years, 3 to 6 years of age during that time.  Now personality will have new foundations.  First of all look at this boy, then we will talk about girl.  Around this time, boy discovers something very special that he has something like there  which his mother is not having, is that right?  They become aware of this thing that they are having a penis and with their certain  experiences they come to know mother does not have penis, sisters do not have penis  and somehow they develop that all the people around the baby, because his special interest  is in phallic stage, penis, so start observing what is going on whenever chance is there  and they do get some chances because females are not careful with these 3 year old, 4 year  old.  So baby, now this child discovers, male child, that boy, baby boy discovers that I am having  a penis, my mother does not have and my father has.  During this baby has seen some other activity in the home.  At very early stage mother was everything, is that right?  The significant relation was only mother, right?  Then at this stage, autonomy versus shame and doubt stage, toddler stage, he knew that  most important thing in the world are mother and father because baby start knowing that  he is doing something, sometimes mother stops, sometimes father stops, but in early stage  fathers are usually not playing any big role.  At this stage they discover, baby boys, that we are having a penis and mother does not  have and father has.  Now they start resolving the mystery, why this difference is there, their small mind  start working on this.  Meanwhile another trouble starts, a big challenge and big crisis in their emotional life.  That around this age, children start falling in love with the opposite sex parent.  So small baby boys start falling in love with the mother, right?  When they start falling in love with the mother, they get more close to the mother and they  don't like their father to be around.  If you really observe the boys in this age, 3 to 6, you will find that they want to keep  the mother in a possessive fashion, they don't like father coming home, even they keep on  suggesting to the mother, why don't you kick this man out, right?  Usually mother is not going into that baby talk, they are wise, you know.  So baby is now trying to take some initiative to the mother, he want sexually and romantically  win the mother and grab it away from the father and repeatedly feeling father is coming  in between.  Meanwhile baby's small mind is also working up, why my mother does not have penis, my  mother is my love object but why this thing is missing there?  And unfortunately all baby boy reach to a very horrible conclusion, almost all of them  somehow in their mind decide that this is culprit is father.  Mother is all the time hard in the home, mother is afraid of him.  I think my mother did some mistake and my father cut off the penis.  Yeah this is a conclusion in almost all baby boys.  Then they become afraid of father, because this is very valued thing, because baby boy  is bringing all players from this area now and he is very afraid of father that he may  cut off my penis also.  Yeah that is true, that is called castration fear, the father will castrate the baby boy.  Now he become more upset about the father and more loving to the mother, right all initiative  is to love the mother.  Now there is lot of tension, you just imagine small baby boy want to love the mother, very  disturbed every time father come and their mother and child relationship disturbed.  Of course when father come in the home, mother is less attentive to the baby, she has to  attend that man also, who claim to be man of the house, baby feel this very bad and  at the same time he is afraid that he may not bring something and cut it off.  So baby is taking some initiative to the mother, he keep on suggesting that this man should  be away and keep on fearing and developing guilt also, right that what he is doing.  Meanwhile he take some other initiative because it is not enough to be autonomous, you should  have some initiative to do certain things, right, certain plays.  During this baby tries his best to displace the father, but most of the time they are  not successful, you must be knowing, if mother kick the father out but reasons are different  not baby boy suggested, right.  So this baby boys around the age of 3 year and 6 year try their best to seduce the mother  by their innocent ways and somehow get rid of the family from the father and in the end  when they feel that their all seductive activity are not bringing any change in the equation  of father and mother and fear of getting castrated day by day become more.  So what happen, tension in their mind become very high.  This mental crisis or emotional crisis in this baby is called Oedipus complex.  You know Oedipus complex?  This is Oedipus complex and baby has to resolve this.  Baby boys eventually most of them decide all our special seductive effort to mother fail  and there is no way to get this man out.  Mental tension is too much due to fear of castration because baby is thinking all the  time that I am planning to kick this man out and he may be also planning to cut it off.  So eventually he decides this tension is too much and all with his effort he could not  win the mother.  So he thinks forget about it.  This loving mother is not a good thing.  So his mind represses that thought and push all that tension, fantasies and experiences  into unconscious mind, buries it there, it's not good.  Why?  Because then baby will become free.  The baby does not want to win the mother.  His tension will go down that he is failing on the mother.  Suddenly fear of castration will be also less.  So Oedipus complex will be resolved.  But baby's unconscious mind is so unhappy with this experience that it wants to forget  about sexual things.  And baby will go to next stage which is called sexual latency.  Sexual urges will be latent, suppressed.  During this phase another thing happens when he is shifting from this phase to that.  Because baby boy in spite of all its effort could not win the romantic love of the mother  and could not displace the father.  So this baby boy decides that how he can win the mother.  Then he comes to know mother is won by the father.  It means I should be someone like the father.  You are understanding?  So baby will resolve this tension because father is the winner and I want to be the  winner so I should be someone like father.  Then suddenly these baby boys start taking father as an ideal.  They start dressing like father.  They start behaving like father.  And even when father is not in the home, they behave with the mother like father.  They sit on the father chair, put a newspaper like this and call Karen, Karen can you come  here with cup of tea?  They are trying to behave like father and that is very important for the development  of the baby.  Why?  Because this is the time when baby boys decide that they should be manly.  Is that right?  But they should not love their own mother.  When they will grow up they should look for some other heterosexual experiences.  You are understanding?  So this is very important to resolve this stage successfully.  Is that right?  So baby boys pass through adipose complex and baby girls pass through electra complex.  In electra complex what happen that they say baby girls also fall in love with the opposite  gender parent that is with father.  But their troubles are not as dramatic as baby boys because they already don't have  penis.  Is that right?  So they are not fearing anything castration.  Secondly they try to win the father and of course they cannot win the father.  So they observe that who is winning the father.  Baby girls decide fine mother is winning the father all the time.  So I should behave like mother.  So they idealize their mother and they start behaving emotionally and socially like feminine  behavior.  Is that clear?  So in females babies this complex is resolved easily.  But for male baby this is a very difficult step to pass through.  Is that right?  Now we were talking about initiative and guilt.  Now in initiative and guilt baby has to take certain initiative in this age because he  has found some autonomy in previous stage.  He has willpower and determination to do certain things.  For example baby may start taking small initiative.  Parents may buy the small cars and they behave as if they are driving the car themselves.  Baby girls start with the mother they try to help in cooking somewhat.  They start taking some initiatives and sometimes they do mistake and then they feel guilty.  Let me tell you the same activity at this stage and that stage means different.  I will give you an example.  If you imagine that there is two year old baby boy.  He takes his father's wrist watch and happily put in the toilet drain and flush it and watch  goes down.  Now for baby if you are sensible father do you think baby, two year old baby who has  put your watch into toilet and flushed it out, he had some evil intentions?  No.  For that baby what was that?  That was something shining going round and round and then going down.  And he enjoyed it.  Is that right?  He took a special autonomy, it was his decision, autonomous decision to flush the, is it right?  Fine.  But if he is taking the watch and you grab it away he feels shame and doubt.  But if you grab it away it is good but if after that you beat him he will lose you know  confidence in his capabilities.  Now you imagine but if five year old child he takes father's watch put in the flush and  flush it.  Do you think this baby has taken initiative but it is a wrong initiative?  This baby is supposed to know that this shiny thing, this father's watch if it is put in  the flush and it is flushed this baby should know what will happen to watch and this baby  should also know what will happen to daddy's temper and baby should feel guilty.  So same event at this stage is manifestation of autonomy.  Here this will end up into guilt.  But do you expect two year old boy to be guilty of his flushing the watch?  It is round round going down shiny but here it should be guilty.  So what happens that here babies take initiative and when they make terrible mistakes they  should feel guilty and personality should have a balance in both things.  The healthy personality develops when initiative is strong with little touch of guilt.  Because if you have only initiative and no guilt that is abnormality.  And during this stage if parents make you for everything you do you are made to feel  guilty again personality is defective.  This is the balance of the two which will bring the new strength to your personality.  If you really successfully mentally resolve this stage in which there is mental conflict  between initiative and guilt then the reward of this stage is purpose.  You know you should have initiative with purpose.  There is no purpose in flushing the watch and it should not be done by this baby.  You are understanding?  Now baby who is developing person who is developing on the positive side in first year of life  he developed to be the strength of hope.  Then during autonomy he learned willpower and determination and during initiative versus  guilt baby developed that whatever initiative should be taken it should be taken with a  purpose and courage.  So these are the positive strengths which you are developing in your personality.  If you are developing on this side you are developing very sad type of personality weak  type of personality you don't trust people with little problems you become hopeless on  this side.  You are always not sure you are doubtful about your capabilities.  And you are not willing to take initiative because whatever initiative you took in your  childhood you felt guilty.  So this will be strong personality or weak personality on this side?  Weak personality.  Is that right?  No problem up to this?  And another thing I want to tell that if autonomy is pathologically too much if parents make  you too much autonomous in early life that is also dangerous.  People who are made autonomous too much at early stage when they grow up they develop  a problem and problem is impulsivity they become impulsive.  You know what is impulsivity?  That without thinking of your capabilities and without thinking of consequences in an  impulsive fashion you jump into new situations because you wrongly feel too much autonomous.  Is that right?  And if you go to that side too much shame and doubt then you will because toilet training  was done and parents were very hard on you you are all the time feeling shame and doubt  about your capabilities to control your sphincters and other activity then this is the first  baby you know first baby harshly trained they develop compulsivity.  Compulsivity is like obsessive compulsive neurosis that you want everything to be perfect  before you do anything otherwise you all the time have doubts about the situations.  Then we come here if you have too much initiative if this ingredient of personality is pathologically  too much you develop another problem.  You know what is the problem here in your personality?  Ruthlessness.  I will explain how ruthlessness.  If you are given at this stage between 3 to 6 years too much initiative without any guilt  when you develop as a person adult you take initiative for your goals but in ruthless  fashion because you don't feel guilty and when you are achieving your goal you don't  care what happens to others you step on their head or you step on their chest you don't  care what happens to others you want to achieve your goal that is the problem when you are  given too much initiative without guilt you become ruthless.  But if this ingredient is over too much then you have another trouble and that trouble  is severe inhibition and too much inhibition in everything you are not going to take any  initiative in the life have you seen some people who don't want to make any decision  for themselves they want others to make their decision they don't want to do any venture  they say nothing ventured nothing lost what is happening with them they are inhibited  and even this may end up in males with impotence and females in frigidity right so this there  should be always a beautiful balance in between the two a little more towards positive side  that you should develop a personality with strong initiative with touch of guilt this is very  important the touch of guilt because if you don't develop the touch of guilt your parents just tell  you whatever you want to do and you are having full initiative for everything and full support  what happens you become a selfish adult you don't care what happens to others while you are going  for your own goals is that right anyway now this person who has developed balance in all these  things he's a hopeful person and whenever trouble is there he will still keep the hope he will  exercise will and determination and all his activity will be with the purpose and courage  is that right then baby will move to the next six year to 12 year of age  six year to from six year onwards six to 12 years of age now his social circle is widening  as you know initially it was only mother then mother and father then in next stage family  which are the important significant people is that right now school and neighborhood  now baby has gone beyond the family and he's somewhere between 6 and 12 years of old  the best thing is that sexually he has gone into latency at this stage usually boys like to play  with boys and girls like to play with girls is that right and boys are idealizing their fathers  and girls are idealizing their mothers because they suffer too much at this stage you know  phallic stage now at this stage there's a new challenge they are going to school there's a  pressure to learn new skills academic skills athletic skills or music there are new challenges  to learn new things right now let's suppose there's one baby one child who is positively  developing he goes to school now parent game has gone beyond the parents and family now school  teachers are also significant figures baby has to perform there's a challenge between two tasks  number one is industry industry hard work industry versus inferiority  now let me tell you what is meant by this now new mental task has come  industry versus inferiority if child will perform well in the school or in the games  on other tasks which society is pushing the child to learn if he'll perform well he will feel I'm  I'm not inferior he's comparing his performance as compared to others performance or with certain  standards and he will feel I'm not inferior and when he feel better he work hard to learn new  hard to learn new skills and new competences and we say the child is becoming industrious  which child will more easily go to positive side now look at the foundation  those children who go to the school but if they have the strength of hope will and determination  purpose they will become more industrious it means if your foundations are better you can  resolve at later stages of life easily on the positive side for example when this baby is  asked to learn mathematics or suppose any foreign language right or let's suppose he has to learn  science you know what happens this is a new thing for baby he has to develop a new skill  when baby start reading the books and taking less lessons from the parents  he feel frustrated because it's new but if he has hope if he has willpower if he has a purpose  he will strongly come up with positive outcome but if baby has sad things here do you think he  will have hope that he will succeed in learning new skills even if he's learning in a bad way  will he exercise willpower and determination will he plan his time purposefully to achieve something  no so what i'm trying to say that if already foundations are weak  the outcomes at higher level of personality development are more chances it will go to the  weak side or if foundations are strong you will also develop more strengths on the higher level  of personality development let's suppose baby has balanced out these in a positive way and resolved  this complete conflict in a very good way and maybe a child learns in the school that yes it's  good to be industrious it's good to learn right and it is not good to feel inferior i'm as strong  as i should be right whatever performance he is giving he feels it is good parents are appreciating  teachers are appreciating grades are becoming good right and he will resolve on this side  his personality will develop one more strength and what is that strength that strength and  personality is skill and competence now all these strengths will help him in as adult  if you have resolved positively in school time skills and competencies and you have developed  a confidence that when you want to learn new thing you can this person will be very strong  as an adult that let's suppose there's one person who is developing on this side another person  developing on that side just imagine both of them are 40 year old and both of them going to  severe financial reverses who will come out this one because he has a lot of financial losses both  of them but he will be still hopeful so keep on trying keep on working even though outward  circumstances are depressing but his willpower and determination to come out of the bad situation  will be strong then all his effort with the purpose to come out of financial trouble and  whatever new skills he has to learn he has confidence to learn the new skill to come out  of that trouble but person who is at the age of 40 suppose where he loses the hope at the  financial tragedy he does not have any willpower and determination he cannot live in a purposeful  fashion and he thinks he cannot acquire the skills to learn new business to come out of his  trouble he will stick with his problems are you understanding fine let's suppose child has learned  this stage also positively and he got a reward of skill and competencies now baby will go to the  next stage at this stage the last stage will develop of the what is this  fried fried says that now baby is entering about 13th year to 18th year so what is this puberty  that will become puberty at puberty there is sudden you know awakening of what sexual interest  suddenly baby again goes back to his own genitalia rather more interested in others  genitalia also you all of you have passed through that stage isn't it now there is reawakening of  sexual interest this is called by fried genital stage  genital stage right that is at the time of puberty and up to few more years genital stage  if now according to fried if you are resolved these things positively  baby will take interest in opposite sex  because boys have resolved the oedipus complex and they learn to be like men and love women  but not their own mother in that way girls are also learned at early stage  that it's not good to fall in love with the father it's better to be mother like but find  someone else so this is a genital stage according to the fried and fried stopped personality  development here this was the eric rickson he kept on developing personality until your last breath  right and actually eric rickson was he always claimed that he learned most of psychology from  the theories of fried but actually eric rickson came in psychology after fried  fried died in 19 late 1930s and eric rickson died in 1994 few years back he he developed  advanced stages so eric rickson say and this is the most important stage eric rickson says that  when you pass 12 to 18 years old the most important stage of your life come a big mental  task to do right what is that again there's a challenge there are two mental forces and you  have to resolve in between them those mental forces are that you have to decide between  identity identity versus role confusion role confusion what is it  when human beings are somewhere around age of 13 to 18 or 13 to 20  the major mental task is to make a clear-cut identity identity mean that around this age  adolescent start thinking who are they let me tell you here let's come back to this question  you know three month old baby what he thinks three month old baby thinks he and mother is one person  even they don't know mother is different thing they feel so intimate with the mother is that right  but as they grow up they learn we are the son of this mother and father at this stage they learn  we belong to that family at this stage they say we belong to i'm a good son i'm a good family member  and i'm a good school member i'm someone asked in school where you are it is his identity that  he is eighth grader or whatever but when baby come here suddenly he discover a new thing  he says fine my mother is my mother but i'm different than mother my father is my father  but i have my own uniqueness fine i belong to a family but still i have own uniqueness  i have many friends in school but i i'm different than still unique there a question come who am i  what is my place in the adult world  now he start asking baby himself what is his role in the practical adult world  adolescent this is a big pressure to the adolescent to decide this thing  so they start the special venture in search of identity they want to know are they doctors  are going to be doctor or they are going to be engineer or they are going to be very religious  or they are going to be atheist or they are going to be good who they are what is their  place in the practical world this is a major question so they start thinking about their  identity in search of identity they do many things which disturb the elders for example  suddenly they like pop music suddenly they start going to the church and too much suddenly they  suddenly they shift and they decide no only and they should be great doctors what is happening  at this time adolescents start looking around themselves and in the media a role model  they're looking for a role model because for them here the most important most important opinion is  peer pressure here father looks somewhat stupid yes suddenly they come to know the mother is not  as strong as they thought and father is not as wise as they thought they think their friends  are more wise because they know about some special music group which father doesn't know  so father should be stupid and they should be wise is that right now around this age  they're looking for identity for example if they have some in the media on the television they are  seeing some special pop show again and again they say we should be like that or they think  you are showing them war heroes they say okay we must go to the military or they see they see there  that there is a very special type of girl see a special model very successful lot of money  lot of cameras after she should be like that or they see there's some uncle who is a very good  neurosurgeon okay we should be like that now they start actively looking for the role model  is that right and they have to decide in their own mind what is their identity so this is the time to  look for identity if you pass successfully through this stage then you will commit yourself with one  specific identity you decide to be a doctor then you start taking the practical steps that as a  doctor how you should study which universities you should plan to go how the doctor's life is  there you are devoting your mental energy to a specific identity another friend he resolved  and decide I should be a military person so he will start taking interest to that side  but before they reach to final identity they do something so much switching  as a temporary identities they acquire and that is the time where elders have to handle them  with a lot of tact because in child mind adolescent mind elders have lost their authority  because they are not so wise son will look to the father oh father you have only three million  dollars you are not billionaire you never thought to be billionaire you sound stupid  yeah or girl may look to the mother oh you cannot manage my father look at me I can get five men  after me like this you cannot manage your own husband she's a stupid woman right so somehow  adolescent have lost the real influence of the elders and more influences by the peer group  peer group so elders are just like powerless but still they have due to their experience  they have to be very tactful to push the babies to positive identity because sometimes  during identity search children or adolescent may go to negative identity  and they may become fanatic they become they may join some very narrow-minded religious group  just in search of they want to be something or they may join some mob in search of identity  that we belong to this mob right they may acquire negative identity or positive identity or worst  they may not have any identity they have role confusion so all of us when we are passing  through adolescent the main mental energy is used in search of identity and elders and media role  elders role is that take the adolescents towards positive identities because if they go to the  negative identity they will make their trouble for society and if they don't have any identity  still they will have trouble for themselves at least because person who does not have identity  clear cut he is not well devoted to any final decision in his life what will happen to that  person he will keep on changing his roles and professions and situations one day you may find  a role confusing person in the age of 35 suddenly he changes religion okay everyone has a right to  change religion if you want to but in the age of 37 you find he has gone to another religion  in the age of 40 you decide i don't have any religion he's confused is that right you have to  have a clear identity around the stage then life will become easier right you have to know who you  are in this universe what you are going to be in the adult world is that right now you imagine  look at the situation let's suppose there's a neurosurgeon in the family and there are two  boys both of them are 16 year old now both of them decide in their mind okay it's great to be  neurosurgeon rather he our uncle is stupid is neurosurgeon it's more wise to be cardiac surgeon  rather very wise to be plastic surgeon now they start dreaming about the identity of suppose  cardiac surgeon now when they start thinking about they look for the choices  if they they find it takes many years it takes many much effort right so what happens the person  who has these strength if he really want to be a cardiac surgeon he will commit to that  for another cousin he said no i don't want to be cardiac surgeon i don't want to be such committed  life in a profession i want to fly in the world i want to enjoy the spices of life and i want to  have a lot of money he decides to be a big businessman he want to be a billionaire now  his identity is like trump like bill gates but again that is an identity so he start thinking  about that but he will stick to billionaire's plan if he has hope but not only you have to be hopeful  to be a billionaire or extremely successful you have to have willpower and determination  then you according to that purpose you align your life activity and then you should develop  all the skills and competences required to achieve that big thing either it is big cardiac  surgeon or big businessman is that right if you have all these things positive you will stick with  your ideal right and you will be devoted you will be loyal with something and we say the fruit of  the stage will be loyalty or we call it devotion the this is a capacity of devotion everyone does  not have capacity to be devoted to certain way of life devotion opposite to that same family  one uncle is cardiac surgeon other is a big businessman but unfortunately one child was  raised with negative experiences he wants to be a billionaire but very soon he become hopeless  when he look at that there are only few billionaire in the world even he for few months and years he  think to be billionaire but his willpower and determination is not there he cannot he wants to  be big cardiac surgeon or billionaire but he cannot adjust his lifestyle with that purpose  and he is not willing to acquire skills and competences do you think he will be well devoted  to his ideal no you are understanding how our early care is putting the foundations for our  adult life so the reward of resolving the conflict of identity versus role confusion is  loyalty and devotion you are committed to your own self and your adult place  and you are willing to bring all these resources for that future plan right during this  you know adolescence make couples do you think they are really long lasting or short lasting  they short lasting why because that is not for love sometime a girl get attached 15 year old  girl attached with a male only to find an identity that I am girlfriend of Vyagane  that's it her identity or one boy is looking for identity okay he just likes a girl very much  so that he gets a new identity that I am a boyfriend of this girl due to these reasons  because they are trying different identity even relationships are not very committed  in the with the opposite gender but as soon as they cross 18 around that very big new challenge come  you know what is that challenge suddenly they feel they have answered many thing look here  the answer was come back the main big question here was is the world trustworthy or not here  the real was am I independent enough or not here the question was can I take initiatives or not  here can I develop the competencies or not here who am I you know what is the question here I am  so alone suddenly they come to know mother is mother father is father family is family school  is school but I am alone these children don't feel alone they are very happy with mother and  father only but they feel alone right now their mental life is stuck into another challenge  the challenge is intimacy versus isolation  what is intimacy developing closeness to another human being with all your trust  surrendering your autonomy to some degree taking initiative for yourself and other person  developing the competencies to make your life easy and other person's life easy  and having the capability not to be only devoted to your own professional goal but also to other  professional goal but also to other person's the capability of loyalty many people are not  capable of that right now if you're positively developed you will resolve to intimacy  you will decide that in spite of many troubles in new relations it's worth it let me give you  an example let's suppose in your class there is a girl who's very positive minded and unfortunately  she gets a boyfriend who's negatively developing now girl who is very positive minded what she  will do she is in a big test in relationship but if she has developed in positive way  then boyfriend is not behaving in a good way she will be still hopeful  she will have a true willpower to change him according to her wishes right she will work on  that purpose she will develop new skills to tame that boyfriend and even when boyfriend is fooling  around she will remain loyal and one day boyfriend will say oh my girlfriend really loves me  is that right but if she's developed in negative way  when boyfriend become a little bit less interested in her she will become hopeless  she will not have will and determination to continue the relationship in spite of some  trouble she will never work with a special purpose how to improve this particular relationship  she is not interested to develop new skills for this particular relationship  and she will also become disloyal do you think that love can go far no so all these things will  now determine that either your mind will decide your emotional circuits in your mind will decide  that intimacy is worth it in spite of all problem or if you are a person who are unfortunately weaker  in personality with little little trouble in intimate relation you will say this is a hopeless  situation I cannot win over there and you start getting isolated so it means that if the person  who is positively developing he has a stronger capacity of intimacy the person who is negatively  developing he has weaker capacity for intimacy so he will eventually like to be emotionally  isolated is that right he may have girlfriend this person who is isolated but he will not  emotionally share with her he will not trust her and girlfriend will know that he is not trusting  me do you think relationship will go ahead it won't am I clear if you develop this positive  what is the reward of this stage Mr. Vyagni will tell me you are quite an experienced man  if you work through this stage in a very positive way what is the reward the strength in your  personality what is that love that is this you become a loving person  you know who is a loving person that even in bad circumstances  when he loves he really loves when things in the loving relationships are going bad they remain  hopeful if there is crisis they will have still will and determination not run away and break  away from relationship and they will specially work on that and in very bad times they will  remain loyal they truly love other person is that right so they will become loving people  loving personality is that right so and okay there is an interesting thing I must tell you  that Eric Rickson gave one concept of ideal love I always feel that he call it  genital utopia you know love is basically opposite gender love this is actually an effort  yes it is an effort to expand yourself in this universe because you want to be with someone  you want to share your life you want to trust and you want to recreate and procreate is that right  you want to have children when you truly love someone so what really happens there is very  interesting thing which Eric Rickson said about love he say the whole purpose of love is  he has given six criteria for that and I feel some females have written this statement  he has said that true love should have number one mutuality of orgasm both of them seek that  other person should have orgasm also not like that men just ejaculate and sleep turn the side and  sleep and she is wondering why I'm here right so number one mutuality of orgasm  criteria number two mutuality of orgasm number two with a loved partner  with a not with anyone around from the straight with a loved partner number three partner should  be from opposite sex right if a male is having orgasm with a male a female is having with a  female according to Eric Rickson that is not genital utopia right so that is the first criteria  utopia is that right again I will repeat first three criteria but there are six he says that  at this stage someone who has reached successfully what he will want out of life he want or she wants  mutuality of mutuality of orgasm with the loved one partner right from opposite gender  right with whom one is willing and able to share trust the true love is not only sex and orgasms  there should be some degree of trust in between right so there should be also trust and with whom  any other person with whom one is able to regulate the cycles of work cycles of procreation and  cycles of recreation true love does not mean just sex again I'm repeating the component which Eric  Rickson said that genital utopia he says it's ideal it is not achievable but this is what  almost every girl think that if it can happen in her life and maybe some boys also number one  mutuality of orgasm number two with a loved partner number three from the opposite gender  number four where you can share trust you can have trust on each other about every matter of  the life number five with whom you can share your cycles of work cycles of procreation and recreation  they should cooperate with each other in these matters about their work habits about their  procreation plan if girl want to be mother and father does not want to be he says no you just  remain my girlfriend I will take 20 years to complete my career and then I want to be father  that is not an ideal situation right so they should be able to regulate their cycles of work  procreation and recreation with each other so that both of them provide a very strong platform  for the personality development of their offspring  you are understanding so things started from the sexual orgasm and ended up on raising the children  with strong personalities that is the whole ideal situation is that right okay now  your age is somewhere between 20 to 40 either you will develop intimacy or you will develop  isolation and if you have worked hard to be for intimacy then the quality you have developed  love now something better and stronger than love is there the next stage this is the second last  stage now your age is somewhere between 40 to 60 year personality is still developing  there is something very special reward at this stage that is a reward stronger and better than  love I know in your age you think there's nothing better than love but we'll see it  first of all the mental task at this stage of development it is against generativity  generativity versus stagnation  stagnation  now what is generativity versus stagnation generativity is a term used when  there is a change in your you start thinking in a very different way you start  thinking that how you can contribute for humanity how you can contribute for upcoming generations  whatever you have learned from life you want to give that information and teach it to younger  generations with a purpose to make their life easier that is generativity a very common example  of generativity is when men and women love their children right they are taking care of them but  a stronger people who have hope and determination and purpose and they have developed many skills  in their life and they have developed devotion with certain goals of the life and they have  been living adult they develop a very special thing now they are not thinking of only loved  and they're not thinking of only their loved ones now you will find someone working a new job  sending some check for an African child whom he has never met or maybe helping some younger people  and giving some advice maybe he's not rich man he's just a taxi driver but that taxi driver is  telling a younger taxi driver what are the special secrets of the trade or there may be an 45 year  old woman who is telling another woman that adult woman young adult woman like 20 year old woman  that how to handle the males you're getting it a new very strong wish start that you have lived  here for 40 years you have been through so much things you want to contribute to the upcoming  generations and you want to make the things easier for them that is generativity or you go to opposite  side stagnation you become a negative way you think world is not trustworthy right you have all  negative experiences at this stage you think oh i could not achieve whatever i wanted i've been in  a nasty world for such a long time right and you think even younger people they're dangerous for  me they're trying to compete me world population is going too much right and they get upset  they don't whatever they have they don't want to share with coming generations it's not matter of  money it's so the way you mentally think i remember in my country there was a woman who used  to work in our family as a maid and she was always happy only worry she had that there's a one very  poor girl getting married and how she can collect the money and buy some thing which can make her  marriage situation better or that woman who's 45 year old so poor she was made in our family but  she's always thinking there's another very poor woman her child is very sick i should arrange  medicine right and then there was earthquake in my country and that woman was one of those women  with little money she just collect the things first of all right warm clothes and other things  and go and deposit to some place so that those things will be transported to the earthquake  stricken area that was generativity opposite to that we have a merchant in our neighbors  he has everything but he thinks that all other people are trying to grab the things from him  he thinks world is not a good place right he has suppose 1 million dollars but he thinks he's  hopeless that he can make more even he's worried if he loses this what will happen he is not going  to help anyone so now there's another crisis you have to decide that you will participate in  generativity or you will become stagnant if you have negative experiences you will become stagnant  because now you know you're going downhill around 40 you start feeling your strengths  are going down and if you negative experiences you say my strength are going down whatever i  have i don't want to share with anyone but if you're positively developed whatever your weaknesses  and strengths you want to make life easier for the upcoming generation you know what is the strength  you develop here no care you start you become a caring person let me tell you the difference  between love and care when you love someone you want some reciprocation for example if you love  someone and that person does not love you back can you keep on loving you become angry even you say  oh our relationship is not true love is that right love is a quality in which you whenever  you give love to others you expect it is conditioned you expect love in return but when you are caring  and true caring you don't expect return if someone is working for some orphan children  is he expecting something in return if an old taxi driver telling a young boy who has started  taxi driving that how to make earn more money and give better service he's expecting something  from him or a 45 year old woman who is telling a younger woman how to resolve her emotional  conflict with the boyfriend due to her experience she is not expecting that boyfriend will come to  her so caring is something beyond love i will define caring is loving people without return  expectations right only very lucky people reach to this stage that whatever their life  you may find in your school that you may find a gate man a poor man and he's in generativity  you may find a very strong rich man but he's stagnant start with your own self you care for  yourself you care for your children you care your friends and then you start caring even those people  whom you don't know is that right your personality has developed up to now now you go 60 and beyond  right 60 and plus and here you may have this crown or you may be very disturbed man or very happy man  you reach at this stage here again you have to do one more mental task to develop your personality  and you have a chance to get the last and the best reward of your life the mental task is integrity  versus despair  this is the time when old people start looking back on their life  they look that inning they have played is well played or not how was the life is that right  now what really happens in old age there is a lot of tragedies coming your physical strength is weak  you may develop financial insecurities you start seeing your spouse may have died your friends are  dying your relatives are dying in old age right and even you have a real risk of dying  at this stage the person who has gone through these all positive things okay first I will  tell you the negative person negative person at this age will become very despair very negative  experience of life at this stage he is hopeless about his future and when his capabilities are  reducing right and what will happen to the negative okay I will give you some example because it's  complex to explain I will give you an example to explain the situation you may find an old man  sitting there and he sees young people and he's very unhappy why young people are so happy  why they should be happy they are very nasty boys and girls our old times were good right he does  he can only be angry with them or scold them but he is not willing to give any advice or make things  easier for them and as he see younger generations their strength their beauty their enthusiasm  disturb him and he will he's more fearful of death and he's feeling person who has gone through  negative experiences he is feeling that he has lost an end and he will decide world was not  worth living place but in spite of that decision he is more afraid of death because there's  uncertainty what will happen after that this person is a big trouble for himself as well as  for anyone other who is going to take care of this old person right you just imagine that there is  one boy and girl and they're trying to make some love or some situation kissing around and an old  woman look at them and she become angry when we were like this no one allowed us this they don't  know how to do this why they should do here they should know I'm here they should go somewhere else  this generation world is going to be destroyed because these this generation is there you know  hopelessness opposite to that look at a person who is negative who is positively developed  maybe 80 year old person who has cancer he's going to die maybe after one month  the old woman but she has developed positive thing she has hope she say okay I'm going to die  so what my children will live even she does not have children she think other person's children  will live on earth world is becoming better I've played my inning well I'm very comfortable with  myself right and she will be happy that I've played my innings well and I as for as long as I'm alive  I will enjoy seeing other people playing even this time become fun for them maybe this old  woman who's having cancer she is going to die after few days and her grandson come and she  still has all the positive trait to tell the fairy tales to the grandson is that right still she can  imagine my grandson will be very strong and he will have children and things will become good  and world is becoming better you are getting it and still at this time the people will try to  contribute to the world and if what we say they have developed integrity strength and all these  personality strength will come together and you will develop a very special trait what is that  wisdom integrity comes with along with it it brings wisdom and the more the curse of wisdom  is that a special type of thinking develop at this stage if you have been on the positive side  you are not loving only yourself not only your family you start loving the everyone in the world  you start loving and caring for the mankind you say mankind is my kind you don't expect 10 year  old child to love everyone in the world but person who has gone through positive he will love everyone  in the world and he'll love it so much that even death is very imminent they are still happy that  many other human beings are living and probably they will make the world better than this  better than this so they will go with confidence without fear face the death  and these people while they are moving towards the death right they started generativity and then  integrity do you think before they died they raised their kids in a negative way or positive  way people on the side positive way so eric rickson said when he written all this theory  in the end that if elderly are not afraid of death then their children are not afraid of life  if elderly are not afraid of death then their children are not afraid of  life what he was saying that if you are positively developing you will take care of your children  such a way that first of all you are so strong you can face the death and then you raise the  children who can face the life and challenges but somewhere if elderly is a very much afraid of  death believe me their children are afraid of life and the challenges because of negative minded  persons here weak personality here raising the children in weak ways you are understanding it  and the beauty of all this thing is that life started with the lap of mother  life started with the lap of mother if you have positive experiences from there  when you will go to the lap of your loved one you will have again positive experiences  and such person who has started his travel from the lap of mother in a positive way  when he will go to loved one he will have positive experiences  and when he is going to the lap of God he is anticipating more positive experiences  am I clear to everyone? Blasphemous! 