 Hey there, I'm Mr. Terry, a high school history teacher.  Welcome back to another history teacher reacts video.  All right, today's video.  I'm heading to a channel that there is no good reason.  I have not been covering this channel more and that is the Great War.  I've been getting requests for it forever.  I don't know why I've been passing on it,  especially because they are going to be talking about World War One,  which is easily one of my favorite subjects to learn to talk about and of course to teach  and one of the big reasons I'm so interested in World War  One is how kind of complicated the start of it was,  you know, so many wars have very cut and dry causes and effects  and that's the big thing.  I'm interested in history is cause and effect  and a real analysis of the causes of World War One should be really complicating  and when you really learn about the causes of World War One,  it should be complicated  and way too often the causes of World War One have been way oversimplified.  So I'm excited to check out what a very popular  and very respected channel like the Great War has to say about it.  And of course, I'm going to be jumping in  and giving me my thoughts and adding anything that I can.  All right, looks like we're in for a long one  because this original video is just a few seconds under a half hour,  but I wouldn't want to spend the time any other way.  All right, the original video is down below.  Let's make sure we're supporting it.  All right, let's get started.  I like looks like we're starting with the frame of the Germans gotta love them pointy hats.  Those should be really good in trench warfare, right?  Oh, look, there's the Germans.  I know lame joke.  I tell in my class.  Let's go. The origins of the First World War are still the cause of lively debate amongst historians  more than 100 years after the assassination of the heir to the Austro-Hungarian throne  as it should June 1914 as a should complex July crisis  that followed the deaths of Franz Ferdinand  Sophie Hotek led to a generalized great power war that shaped the 20th century,  but this crisis can also be seen in the broader context of the so-called long fuse long-term causes  that made war more likely in post-Napoleonic Europe jump in real quick a famous acronym  that teachers that we like to teach in in the classroom about World War  one when it comes to long-term causes is the acronym Maine  M A I N militarism Alliances imperialism and nationalism.  Have you been taught that in your class curriculums before let me know down below.  So let's take a look at the outbreak of the First World War.  Let's go.  Great War decades before the First World War broke out in 1914 industrialization  led to huge increases in wealth and urbanization.  Yes, also created stark inequalities in society correct groups needed to manage the resulting tensions.  So encouraging nationalism and pride and Imperial expansion  helped to channel the anger and energy of the popular classes elsewhere,  but this caused problems abroad Britain France and Russia.  If you're an industrial nation, you didn't have to be an industrial giant to be a part of this  and be a part of the nationalistic fervor.  In fact, some of the greatest nationalism happen in places that were under industrialized  and we're about to find out about that had well established Empires by the late 1800s  when a new player arrived on the scene Germany became a Unified State in 1871  and eventually began to create its own overseas Empire  and blue gold Bismarck to appease is growing commercial class  and to offset the powerful influence of Social Democratic parties at home.  Yeah, Germany's birth again in kind of 1871 with Bismarck really did throw a cog into the European machine  that had been around for so long  and traditional powers had maintained power for so long  and with how aggressive Germany was early in wanting to become an industrial giant  and an Imperial giant that really complicated things  and again brought in even more competition  that you're going to see with them getting involved in the scramble for Africa  wanting to get territory in in Asia.  And yeah, it just added another major player  and the more of these you're going to have the more like you have to have a conflict right  Germany's ambitions for its quote place in the sun  caused a spike in tensions between the great powers  who were already in competition with each other.  Yep, great. They're a late player there became part of popular culture  with jingoistic press militaristic education in schools  brainwashing everything from children's toys and thriller novels  and even movies focusing on feats of arms or dangerous potential enemies.  Some of the greatest brainwashing we have ever seen  was happening in the 1800s in the era of the new imperialism  with all the success of industrialization and imperialism.  Let's just simplify it this way countries were getting cocky about their own cultures  and we're spreading that to their children the people that are going to fight in these World Wars  like in especially specifically World War one were born  and bred and raised to believe in the superiority of their country,  which shows the which is going to exemplify the positive opinion of the war at the beginning of the war.  Things are going to change or something found out devastating it is.  These political and social tensions caused a growing anxiety among many Europeans.  Yes, and the danger that they might lead to war was heightened by increasing militarization.  Sure as the great powers notice the acronym coming out worried about rivals.  They also built up their military capability  and political alliances Germany's expansion real quick about alliances.  They've already mentioned by the way, all four of the long-term causes ma.  I am right militarism Alliances imperialism nationalism.  A lot of people thought though that the Alliances was actually a good thing  and the fact that they generally believe that Alliances actually was to help the tensions that you know,  if you have Alliances and there's a fairly even balance of power in the Alliances  that actually that should actually make the make Europe safer  because this idea that you know,  nobody thinks anybody would be dumb enough to attack somebody that has an ally  because attack on one is attack on all we found out that is a very flawed thing.  What it ends up doing actually is making one conflict between one country  and another country spread to other conflicts,  but it was believed that Alliances were actually a peaceful thing  and not an aggressive thing in the naval build-up provoked reactions from the other powers the UK responded  by building even more warships including the new dreadnought class.  Meanwhile Austria-Hungary and super powerful clashed over influence in the Balkans  where new independent states had largely replaced the weakened Ottoman Empire with Russian help  but with the history of ethnic Slavs in Southeastern Europe are part of sort of the ethnic kind of family tree of Russians.  Russia was seen as the big brother to the little Slavic nations  and had pride had made pride in itself as the protector of the Slavic peoples.  And that's why you're going to see the Russians back up the Serbians by 1914  a system of Alliances bound most of the great powers to each other  for better or for worse France and Russia worse than allies since 1894  and the Triple Alliance connected Germany Austria-Hungary  and Italy Britain had maintained a policy of splendid isolation.  If you're like what Italy they switch sides later.  Don't worry.  You didn't remember wrong for most of the 19th century,  but it's fear of German naval expansion brought it closer to the Franco-Russian block to create the Triple Entente  the danger of such Alliances was that a conflict involving one  or two powers was more likely to drag all of them into a European again.  People thought that that would keep people from Germany felt surrounded by potential enemies.  So we're trying to test Entente resolve during two diplomatic crises in Morocco in 1905 and 1911.  Yeah, not a lot of people know that there you're our Germany,  especially especially like between Germany  and France to were on the brink of war multiple times before World War 1 even broke out.  This did not come out of nowhere the British and French held firm,  but there was no war which animal German chief was wearing a helmet.  If we again slip away from this Moroccan affair with our tail between our legs,  and if we cannot bring ourselves to put forward a determined claim,  which we are prepared to force through with the sword.  I shall despair of the future of the German Empire.  Yeah, then resign. But before handing in my resignation,  I shall move to abolish the army and to place ourselves under Japanese protectorate.  We shall then be in a position to make money without interference and develop.  It's just like the the machismo the like the the macho  Nis that these guys feel like they had to constantly exude is just insane, right?  They're all tough guys, right? Fake tough guys,  but they all they all talk like that. Germany's worries about its situation in Europe  caused its government to shift priority from the Navy,  which had angered Britain back to the army,  which caused France and Russia to expand. Of course Britain's like no one else can have a Navy.  That's our thing. Their armies to many in Berlin.  It seemed that time was on the Entente side  and Germany's chances would be better if war came sooner rather than later.  Historians still debate what a dumb thought process,  right? Franco-British refusal to share international power played a greater role in increasing tensions.  While great power alliances hardened across Europe,  more trouble was brewing in the Balkans.  The Austro-Hungarian annexation of Bosnia from the Ottomans in 1908 upset Russia  and angered Serbian nationalists.  That's really the trigger. You guys know this.  This was probably the most important event in,  you know, in the 20 years or so leading up to this.  What's much closer than 20 years were within five to ten years for this.  This is the big one who wanted closer ties with South Slav populations in Austria,  Hungary, Russia,  then supported the independent Slav states in the Balkan Wars of 1912  and 1913 in which Serbia gained more territory.  Tensions between Austria-Hungary  and Russia rose sharply over the Serb issue  and got even worse when Austrian counterintelligence officer  Alfred Riedel was exposed as a Russian spy in 1913.  Long-term causes of the war like imperial competition  or military alliances didn't mean that war was inevitable for a full-on war to break out.  What could possibly be any other result from an ideology that doesn't have an end?  Militarism doesn't have a, it doesn't have a natural ending.  There's an end boss. There's a final boss.  It's war. That's what I at least feel like.  What do you think about that?  A crisis had to come that would force governments to decide for war.  On June 28th, 1914,  Serb nationalist Gavrilo Princip assassinated Austrian Archduke Franz Ferdinand  and his wife Sophie in Sarajevo.  Y'all know the story. I don't think I need to go in too much about it.  Right? The assassination? I hope not.  Those shots triggered the July crisis. Following the killing of...  That's the immediate, that's the spark, right? You guys have,  tell me if you've heard this one, by the way, too, for you all that have been students.  You've ever heard of the powder keg analogy  where it's like you have the long-term causes, right?  M-A-I-N. And all those are ingredients of a big keg of gunpowder.  All that, each of the ingredients. And what the assassination is, is the fuse.  It's the, it's the, the fuse has been, actually the fuse,  maybe the fuse itself is Bosnian annexation,  but the ignition is the, is the assassination, of course.  Have you heard of that analogy? That's a really common one we use in classrooms as well.  Austria-Hungary blamed Serbia. Most historians agree today,  there was some semi-official Serbian involvement in the crime.  Yes. Although whether Serbian Prime Minister Nikola Pasic  and the rest of his government knew about the plot is hotly debated.  That's the difference. Yeah, there were absolutely people within the government,  in the military, that were complicit in arming the assassins in Bosnia  for the assassination. Was it like an official government plot?  That's, that's a stretch. But nevertheless, Austria doesn't care.  Austria, whether it's, they think it's a big plot or a little plot,  still thinks the Serbians are responsible for this.  In any case, in 1914, there was no proof of Serbian government involvement.  The assassination itself did not bring about war directly.  By the way, we also need to make sure we understand,  Austria did not wait for the investigations to be over about who was fully responsible.  They went to war and put on the ultimatum,  I'm sure we'll get to, without really even caring about the final findings of the investigation.  Austria-Hungary was disappointed that other European governments  did not condemn the killings more forcefully,  a view shared by the German ambassador to Russia, Friedrich von Portales.  Chill for a bit. They were so eager.  Not only in the press, but also in society.  One meets almost only with unfriendly judgments on the murdered Archduke.  But the Serbian response was the one that mattered most to Austria-Hungary.  Officially, Pasic issued condolences,  but also claimed that the assassinations were an internal Austro-Hungarian issue.  The Serbian investigation lasted only a week,  and found no evidence of government involvement.  Serb nationalists and newspapers were less diplomatic.  Some openly blamed the Austro-Hungarians themselves for the killings,  while others praised the assassins.  Yeah, there's plenty of people that popular people in Serbia that were like,  well, he's killed, but maybe they had it coming  and maybe that's not such a bad thing.  You know, Austro-Hungarians complained.  Pasic said that he had neither the tools nor the inclination to censor the free Serbian press.  Back in Vienna, the Imperial Council met to discuss their options.  Chief of Staff Franz Conrad von Herzendorf had argued forcefully for war for years,  and he wasn't alone.  Yeah, that was not the first time Austrians had been talking about war with Serbia.  They have hated the Serbians for a long time, already just wanted to do it.  A lot of these more aggressive leaders are going to use the assassination as,  you know, try to use it as the final straw.  The foreign ministry was flooded with letters from Austro-Hungarian notables,  calling for an armed response.  Austrian artist Josef von Storck wrote on June 30th.  Last year, I took the liberty of writing to say that we would have to learn  how to tolerate Serbian impertinences without resorting to war.  Now, the matter has acquired an entirely different aspect.  Conrad put it more bluntly.  War, war, war.  You know, by the way, I put up a poll today in preparation for this video  on my YouTube community page,  which is what country should get more blame, okay?  The most blame, okay? Not all the blame,  but like of all the countries involved in the beginning of World War I,  who should receive the most blame for it?  And even without spanking countries, so many of you put von Herzendorf,  like you put him there, like he, more than any individual person,  should receive blame for this war.  The Austrian government decided on a military response to punish Serbia  and resolve the issue of greater Serb nationalism  seen to be destabilizing the empire.  The war was meant to be local and quick,  but attacking Serbia meant risking conflict with Russia.  And for Austria, that was unthinkable without Germany's support.  After the assassinations, the German ambassador to Vienna had urged restraint,  but on July 6th, Kaiser Wilhelm made Germany's position clear  by giving Austria a so-called blank check.  Yes, we've got to put Wilhelm into that same pool of people.  Dude, restraint, bro. You have the best thing  because Austria is not going to be as aggressive  and aggressive sounding without the German support on their back.  You talk big when you've got your homies behind you,  but when you've got to handle things yourself,  you're probably going to have to be a little bit more logical.  We've got so many people to blame. Let's keep going.  Austrian ambassador, Count Laszlo Seugeny-Marich,  reported the German promise to Vienna.  The Kaiser authorized me to inform our gracious majesty  that we might rely upon Germany's full support.  If we had really recognized the necessity of war-like action against Serbia,  Kaiser Wilhelm would regret if we did not make use of the present moment,  which is all in our favor.  You had a chance, Germany, to calm this?  Wilhelm went on to say that he felt that Russia was not ready for war  and if Austria did attack Serbia, it should do so as quickly as possible.  So by early July—  Still bring Russia into the war, no matter if you do it quickly.  It's not like it would happen so quickly that Russia wouldn't care anymore.  Russia, I mean, they haven't really said it yet.  Russia, you know, has taken some L's in the last about decade before this,  like losing to the Japanese in the Russo-Japanese War.  They are eager to prove that they are not a laughingstock, right,  and have had losses recently that have put Russia into that consideration.  Seemed possible.  A peaceful negotiated settlement, an Austro-Serbian war in the Balkans,  a continental war involving Austria, Russia, Germany, and probably France,  or a world war if Britain and its empire joined France and Russia.  A lot of possibilities.  Only Austria-Hungary and Russia had direct interests in the Balkans,  but the system of European alliances would likely draw other states in as well.  However, neither the Triple Alliance nor the Triple Entente  called for automatic participation in a war.  Instead, each state had to decide how far they were willing to go.  Because it's important to understand that treaties can look like different things.  These treaties were largely supposed to be defense treaties.  The idea of we will go to war if you are attacked,  not necessarily if you are the attacker, right,  which puts countries in a difficult position of an ally with somebody.  You may not like the decision that they make,  so you may or may not actually want to go through on your alliance.  AKA Italy here.  The Triple Entente powers generally preferred a negotiated settlement to the crisis.  If war did break out, Britain and France favored limiting the war to the Balkans,  although Russia was more willing to accept a great power war over Serbia.  Russia wanted to keep its reputation as protector of the Balkan Slavs  and potentially expand its influence in the area around the Turkish Straits.  It was so important to Russia's trade and power projection.  If it came to a great power war, France would support its ally in Russia  and hope that Britain would join as well.  In Britain, a major war was unpopular with the public, business circles,  and some members of cabinet.  Some politicians, like Foreign Secretary Edward Gray,  reasoned that if a major war broke out,  the outcome would be better for Britain if it joined Russia and France.  By the way, Germany knew this, that the British may not necessarily join in.  If just Russia or France get involved, that may not be enough.  And what they underestimated, though, was their relationship with Belgium,  who I'm sure they're going to get to here shortly.  If Germany and Austria defeated France and Russia,  British interests and security would badly suffer.  But there was still significant opposition in the UK.  As far as the Entente powers were concerned, a major war still seemed unlikely.  Understanding Austro-German intentions is trickier, and historians still debate them.  Their leaders saw little benefit in a negotiated settlement.  It wouldn't resolve the issue of Serbian nationalism  or improve Austria's position in the Balkans.  The best outcome would probably come from a localized Austro-Serbian war.  At the same time, launching such a war meant accepting the risk of a continental war  against France and Russia and possibly Britain.  Germany had made plans for war against France and Russia  and felt that the longer it waited, the more powerful Russia would become  and the greater the risk of defeat.  I'm afraid to wait to see if they actually talk Schlieffenplan,  because if they're just talking about the causes, they might not actually get to it.  Schlieffenplan basically is a German military plan  with the scenario of having to potentially fight a two-front war between France and Russia.  Basically, the Schlieffenplan said and kind of banked on this idea  that although the Russian Empire army is huge,  in fact, it's the largest military of all the European powers,  would, however, take a long time to mobilize.  So to avoid having to fight a two-front war, the idea was do a full attack on France  and go ahead in and try to take them out as quickly as possible,  and that would buy you time, I guess you'd say,  to then having to or then being able to go against the Russians.  Now, what that plan also included was trying to take out France as quickly as possible,  insert into the Schlieffenplan invading France through Belgium  rather than Germany invading right across France  because Belgium would be an easier place to take  and to move through to get to northern France and specifically Paris,  which is where anybody that wants to attack France needs to take.  But it does also have some risk involved  because going through Belgium is problematic because it's a neutral nation.  Also, it is very closely tied to Britain.  So there's some risk factor of first off being,  you know, one that would look really bad by invading a neutral nation like Belgium  and then second would be it could trigger the United Kingdom's entrance into the war.  But it was supposed to be a risk versus reward thing  and the reward was bigger than the risk for the Germans.  Germany and Austria both decided to risk a European war against France and Russia  to resolve the Serbian issue in Austria's favor.  If a general war came, victory would allow Germany to dominate the continent.  The wild card, of course, was Britain.  If the UK fought against them, an Austro-German victory was much less likely  and would amount to a worst-case scenario.  Stolen all the British are going to do.  In the face of rival alliances and conflicting goals and expectations,  the great powers of Europe faced the July crisis of 1914.  After Germany's blank check to Austria on July 6th,  Austria-Hungary planned to move quickly against Serbia,  but that was easier said than done.  On July 7th, the Austro-Hungarians planned their next step.  Although many were eager for war, the government was not quite united.  Hungarian Prime Minister Istvan Tisza was at first hesitant.  The Kingdom of Hungary already included many Serbs  and war with Serbia would only increase those tensions.  Tisza insisted that Austria-Hungary deliver an ultimatum to Serbia  to give one last opportunity for peace or to justify eventual military action.  Crafting the ultimatum took time, and Tisza only approved the final text on July 19th.  The ultimatum text was not the only delay.  Many Austro-Hungarian troops were on leave for the harvest,  and mobilization would take two weeks.  People don't remember or don't remember or at least understand  how important things like food are and the impact that food has on wars  and the fact that people are still farmers and so are soldiers,  so can't fight until all the food has been harvested.  The French President and Prime Minister arrived in St. Petersburg on July 20th  for a scheduled meeting with the Russians.  So if the Austrians gave the ultimatum to Serbia before the French went home,  Moscow and Paris might quickly develop a joint response.  It's debated how much the French and Russians may have already known  about the coming Austrian ultimatum,  but they did use the meeting to portray an image of ironclad unity.  As President Raymond Poincaré told the Russians,  his primary concern was Britain.  France came right in.  When Germany declared war on Russia,  it was like the next day that France was like,  we got your back, Ruski.  We shall have weighty matters to discuss.  I am plus. Let's remember.  Sorry to I feel like I'm interjecting too much.  France already doesn't like Germany.  They've almost been a war before in the last few years.  We shall agree on all points,  but there is one question which is very much on my mind.  The wild card is lending with England.  We must get her to come into our Alliance.  The Austro-Hungarians waited until the French leaders were at sea on July 23rd  to send the ultimatum to the Serbs of the 10 demands most concerned the arrest  of Serbian officials and the suppression of anti-Habsburg propaganda.  To carry this out, the ultimatum.  I wish I could go through more and do it.  I could do a whole video on the ultimate ultimatum,  but look at it so you can understand again,  what was in it and if it was a fair list of demands or not for Serbia  or was this list of demands intentionally created to make it impossible  for the Serbians to accept it and therefore,  you know provide war which is if that's the case,  is that what Austria wanted no matter what and did that Serbia quote accept  a collaboration in Serbia of organs of the imperial  and royal government of Austria-Hungary.  This was tantamount to surrendering Serbian sovereignty  and the Austrians had deliberately draft not wrong.  So the Serbs would have no choice but to reject it  and war could then be declared.  They want it no matter what Belgrade replied within the 48-hour deadline  and accepted all that was that fair to 48 hours  for the Serbian government to like delegate and talk about it points  except for those contrary to the Serbian Constitution  like allowing Austro-Hungarian officials to prosecute Serbian citizens.  The ultimatum triggered a wave of feverish diplomatic activity.  The entente powers now fully realize the seriousness of the crisis,  which had mostly been driven behind closed doors.  The outfits in until now London Paris and St.  Petersburg condemned the ultimatum,  although Britain suggested mediation talks,  including Britain France Germany and Italy,  but Berlin refused Russo-Austrian relations were by now red hot Russian  foreign minister Sergei Sazonov actually shouted at the Austro-Hungarian ambassador in a meeting.  I know what it is.  You want to make war on Serbia.  The German newspapers have been egging you on you are setting fire to Europe.  It's a great responsibility. You are taking on you will see what effect this has in London  and Paris and maybe elsewhere to help.  How about millions dead czar ordered partial mobilization of four military districts on July 24th  followed by the period preparatory to war on the 26th pre mobilization.  That was something you know that Russia tried to also distinguish  but that there's this difference between the pre mobilization and mobilization.  They should be considered differently and less aggressive.  The Russian army began to call up reservists gather supplies  and promote officers at the same time.  The czar wanted to make sure that these measures did not appear to be directed at Germany.  So Austria-Hungary blank check from Germany  and had made sure that its ultimatum to Serbia was unacceptable on July 28th,  1914 Germany, but chill bro war on Serbia.  The war was still a regional one,  but that would all change in the cascade of events in the coming days  and boy, it's like a week.  That this thing unravels into multiple nations declaring war.  It's amazing actually how fast the snowball is about to roll crazy reality  partial Russian mobilization was an illusion.  Nikki the general staff had no plans to partially mobilize  and Tsar Nicholas's generals told him that partial mobilization short  would disrupt a potential full mobilization  and still likely alarm the Germans military  and political leaders of all powers were confronted with the same problem.  If one army mobilized its neighbor would feel pressure to do the same  or run the risk of an early defeat.  Thanks to modern railways bringing enemy troops to the border within days.  This dilemma gave the generals increased influence over the crisis.  The drink from a spoon to overcoming the last one got that Tsar announced full mobilization all eyes.  What is this ceremony someone someone let me know if what the significance of this is  what he's doing with the spoon now turn to Germany teach me from July 29th to August 1st.  Tsar Nicholas and Kaiser Wilhelm exchanged cousins of urgent.  Tell it y'all know that right cousins.  It's related through the English monarchy.  In fact, it's wild perhaps affectionately signing Nikki  or Willie the two cousins spoke of their affection for each other,  but also issued demands.  One of the things you should all read is the telegraphs that week before the declarations of war  when they get in there kind of each other Nikki and Willie  and it's so like informal for something that is is so serious  and it's going to be so cataclysmic on July 30th.  We could gain, you know, it's bad that way.  I now receive authentic news of serious preparations for war.  The Willie Nikki Eastern Frontier telegram responsibility  for the safety of my Empire forces preventive measures of defense upon my friendship  for you and your Empire transmitted to me by my grandfather on his deathbed  has always been sacred to me  and I have honestly often backed up Russia the peace of Europe.  Hey, we've been friends by you if Russia will agree to stop the military measures,  which must threaten Germany and Austria-Hungary,  but I'm sure they're going to get into what Wilhelm saying.  He's like you want us to back down.  Then why do you keep pumping up Austria-Hungary?  You should be the one that should be de-escalating the situation.  This is your thing right because this was your ally being aggressive.  You should be the one this is on you. Not me.  This is what they're trying to say here.  London now tried to mediate again,  including a proposal for Austro-Hungarian forces to stop at Belgrade on the 29th German  Chancellor Teobald von Bettmann-Holweg asked Britain to stay neutral  if Germany promised not to touch French possessions.  Foreign Secretary Edward Gray now desperately sought clarification from his own cabinet.  Yeah, two-thirds of which had previously opposed the war.  Cabinet member John Burns summed up the decision.  Situation seriously reviewed from all points of view.  It was decided not to decide.  Do nothing still would not say if it would join the entente in case of a general.  So within a few days, not a long time tensions  and tried to rein in the Austro-Hungarians including suggesting the halt in Belgrade plan.  Meanwhile, the German chief of staff Helmut von Moltke was encouraging Conrad to attack.  Conrad explaining who actually rules in Berlin.  Oh my gosh.  Boltzendorf. This is why y'all were putting his name down there on the poll question.  I have it on the community page. It's got to go on him.  Making more sense, isn't it?  It's claimed it was now too late to change course  and a temporary occupation of Belgrade would not achieve their aims.  Moltke also began to push for Germany to mobilize  since the German war plan depended on speed to avoid a two-front war.  Exactly. Schlieffen plan called for German armies to first defeat France  while Russia was still mobilizing, then shift the German troops to the east.  If Russia was allowed to mobilize first, Germany would be at a disadvantage.  The Germans had started preparing on July 28th,  but on the 31st Kaiser Wilhelm announced pre-mobilization,  the Kriegsgefahrzustand or state of threatening danger of war.  The decision led to another flurry of telegrams.  Germany demanded that Russia cease mobilization  while simultaneously asking Austria-Hungary to prepare for operations against Russia.  The Germans also asked for French and British neutrality  in a seemingly imminent Russo-German war.  Good luck with that.  A third royal cousin, King George, now called on the Tsar to end...  England, Russia, Germany, leaders are all related.  World War I was really a family affair, wasn't it?  That brought everyone into it.  ...mobilization.  Prime Minister Herbert Asquith recalled the moment  he presented a draft telegram to the king.  The poor king was hauled from his bed  and one of my strangest experiences was sitting with him.  I read the message and the proposed answer.  All he did was suggest that it should be made more personal and direct  by the insertion of the words,  my dear Nikki,  and the addition at the end of the signature,  Georgie.  And so as July 1914 came to an end,  there was a frenzy of diplomatic messages between European capitals.  For many military leaders though,  it was too late for any more talk  and they began to pressure the politicians to act.  The wheels of motion, man.  The wheels are in motion and nobody could stop it.  It's like even the leaders couldn't even stop it.  Not now, not at this point.  On July 31st, French General Joseph Joffre  asked his government to reverse its more passive policy and mobilize.  President Poincaré described the meeting  which lasted into the wee hours of August 1st.  The wee hours?  Joffre appeared with the placid face of a calm,  resolute man whose only fear is lest France,  outstripped by German mobilization,  the most rapid of them all,  might speedily find herself in an irreparable state of inferiority.  France finally mobilized at 4 p.m.  on August 1st. In Berlin,  It's not like mobilization is like this light switch.  You turn it on and all of a sudden you're ready for war.  That's not how it works.  Having the same conversation with Chancellor Holbein  and 30 minutes later, Germany announced their mobilization.  Half hour. Look how fast it's going.  It's half an hour. Moscow told Berlin that Russia would not stop its mobilization.  And so Germany declared war on Russia. On August 2nd,  German troops were on the move. They didn't even wait.  4 o'clock, 4.30, 7 p.m.  All of this had happened in the time that you could watch one,  maybe not hardly even finish one episode  or one part of Lord of the Rings.  Not east, but west into neutral Luxembourg.  This was in accordance with the Schlieffen plan,  which the Germans said was a strategic necessity.  The British position was still not clear.  London sent ambiguous messages to Berlin,  suggesting that Britain might remain neutral if Germany did not attack France.  Kaiser Wilhelm now asked Molke to abandon the Schlieffen plan  and stop his armies from marching across the French border.  Von Molke replied that stopping the massive  and complex mobilization was impossible and suicidal.  Really? Yo, he's wearing a mop. Look at that.  Look at that. Fully understand his own military machine.  Your illustrious uncle Von Molke, the elder,  would not have given me such an answer.  If I order it, it must be possible.  Geez, little full of yourself. Soon after the Kaiser learned  that there was no formal British offer to stay neutral  and gave his armies the green light to follow the plan  and invade Belgium, Luxembourg and France.  By August 2nd, the mood in Britain.  Once you do that, there's no going back.  The British informed the French that they would block any German naval movements  in the channel and would uphold Belgian neutrality.  Belgian neutrality was Britain's final red line,  but it was a line that Germany had already begun to cross.  They already committed. Germany delivered an ultimatum to Belgium  that it had prepared back on July 26th.  The Germans claimed the French plan to enter Belgium.  So Germany had no choice but to move in preemptively.  That's what everybody says,  and it's hard about that is that preemptive warfare crap,  like you can't falsify it because it's completely hypothetical.  You're basing something on a hypothetical  and that's hard to justify, right? If Belgium resisted,  the Germans would consider it an enemy.  How dare you defend yourself if we invade you?  That's an act of war. Berlin on August 3rd.  The intentions Germany ascribes to France are in contradiction  with the formal declarations made to us.  The infringement of Belgium's independence,  with which the German government's threatened her,  would constitute a flagrant violation of international law.  No strategic interest justifies such a breach of law.  The Belgian government is firmly resolved to repel every infringement  of its rights by all means and its power.  Sorry about that. You got no power, man. Sorry Belgium.  Italy declared that it would stay neutral  and would not join its triple alliance partners in war.  Well, yeah, I mean Italy is like,  hey, our ideas of alliance were about defense.  You're out here being, you know, the aggressor  and that for us doesn't make us binding to this treaty.  Plus, we're about to find out that Italy is going to be offered a much better deal by the Allies,  especially because they have had territorial disputes with Austria-Hungary  and would love to get some land. Germany claimed France was about to attack it,  which wasn't true and declared war on France.  On August 4th, German troops marched into Belgium.  Belgium appealed to Britain, France, and Russia to guarantee her independence  and Britain declared war on Germany.  By August 4th, the great powers of Europe were at war  and the First World War had begun. In the next four years,  roughly 20 million people would be killed or die of disease and hunger.  But even before the killing stopped, debates were raging about the war's origins  and who was to blame and they haven't stopped since.  Shortly after the outbreak of the war, each of the powers published a so-called color book,  making its case as to how to understand the July crisis and basically blaming the other side.  That's what everyone did. Every single country that was just talked about  felt justified in the actions that they did.  They were equally committed to this and that's a big flaw in all this.  Each side still blamed the other and the Allies put the responsibility squarely  on the central powers in the post-war peace treaties.  That's true. Since then, the evidence of 1914 has been interpreted in many different ways  as historians have tried to answer who was at fault for starting the war.  For years, many historians concluded that all the powers shared some of the blame for the war beginning.  Isn't that the only fair assessment you can make? You try to pin it on one, even two nations completely?  Are you doing this justice? I don't know.  Then in the 1960s, German historian Fritz Fischer made one of the most influential arguments.  He claimed that the German government and military elites had grandiose plans  and wanted to achieve them through war. The Fischer school claims Germany had long planned a war  aimed against Russia and France and directly led Austro-Hungarian actions in order to escalate events.  Yeah, his thing really becomes influential in how the narrative of World War I  will largely put Germany at fault for it.  Which, of course, we see in the treaties, too, that they were forced to agree to.  And then what's a backward logic, but World War II, which you very much can put a blame on Germany,  people tried to use that as justification that if later on in history,  Germany showed a lot of military aggression, then that must have meant that was true for them  20 years before in World War I. It's kind of backwards,  but it was like honestly an argument that it was just like that,  you know, the Nazis just confirmed the actual like what has what is the German character?  More recently, other single powers have been fingered for their role in the crisis.  Sean McMeekin emphasized that Russia's actions turned a Balkan war into a continental one  and Niall Ferguson blamed Britain for its mistakes and naivete.  What do you guys do you guys think?  I mean, there's a lot of questions on this for the countries that weren't involved in the assassination.  So anybody outside of Austria, Hungary and Serbia,  who do you think out of that is more to blame?  Is it Russia for Russian mobilization?  Or is it Austria for not trying to keep Austria more restrained?  Let me know down below. Some other recent interpretations,  like Christopher Clarke's sleepwalker theory,  suggests the war was largely unintended and resulted from miscalculations,  misunderstandings and perceived insecurities.  I think it's naive to say that. I think it's naive to say that.  Sorry. I mean, I haven't read his work obviously,  but I'd have to see what he why he says that but just based off of what I know  and I could be wrong for sure. We're unlikely to become involved  and tried its best to localize the conflict in the Balkans.  Another debate centers around whether the war was inevitable.  Here. The recent consensus is that the alliance.  I'm a little bit on that side force any state to fight as Italy proved  by staying neutral in 1914.  This not for long though stresses that there were many times  when things might have taken a different turn.  Like if Austria had acted more quickly against Serbia.  No Britain had taken a clear position right from the start of the crisis.  I don't think that would I don't think that would matter either.  I think Germany would still do it.  I don't know. I got to hear some more evidence just based off of what I know.  The Germany would still do their actions with the Schlieffen plan.  There's also a discussion about culture and mentality in 1914.  That's part of me James.  Joel for example suggests that the cultural military  and strategic Zeitgeist saw war as a practical  and indeed desirable actual for social change and defense of national interest.  Okay. Yeah, I was interpreting that differently militarism.  Absolutely. We're talking about how all these tough guys  and fake tough guys and governments  and militaries the way that they spoke  and the tough guy persona of the glory of Warfare,  you know that these guys have been bored  and bread with since childhood is a very legitimate argument.  Since modern war also involved the need for a quick mobilization  by a rail timetables military commanders became as  or even more important than politicians in the crisis,  but they're inflexible strategies could not respond to the political needs.  So perceived military necessity dictated political action.  Russian politicians wanted partial mobilization not to scare Germany,  but did just that and German politicians did not want to bring Britain into the war,  but their armies marched into Belgium and did just that.  This was the exact opposite of Clausewitz's concept that war is politics by other means  and it's an important aspect of understanding how the crisis ended in a world war.  The war that started with the July crisis in 1914 lasted more than four years,  but the war amongst historians to make sense of it all still rages more than a century later.  The dramatic events that led to the First World War changed the world forever.  31 years after the July crisis Europe saw the end of the Second World War,  which was partially born from unsettled scores  and further radicalization after 1918.  1945 there would be no peace until total surrender  and in April that year the Soviet Army launched their final offensive  on the German capital of Berlin.  In our four and a half hour 18 part documentary series 16 Days in Berlin,  we chronicle this final battle.  It features original film footage from Soviet cameramen,  never-before-seen photos of the battle, detailed maps and animations,  and expert interviews with David Willey from the Tank Museum,  Ian from Forgotten Weapons, and more.  Unfortunately, we can't upload this series to YouTube  because it shows the grim reality of the Second World War  and that would get us demonetized or worse.  So where can you watch 16 Days in Berlin in 4K resolution?  On Nebula, a streaming service we built together with other creators  and where we can upload documentaries without fear of demonetization.  Great plug and I'll plug that for them if you want to see that series.  Go ahead and go over the original video that they have.  Go down and figure out how you guys can get to that.  Let me get my final thoughts.  All right, that is why I like learning about World War I.  How could you not see all this intrigue and all of this stuff not interesting?  If you're not finding it interesting,  I don't know if you have a history or I don't think you have a pulse  and I'm going to question your actual appreciation and love of history  if you do not find this incredibly fascinating.  It's easily one of my favorite topics to talk about,  not even just World War I in general, but the causes of the World War.  It's a fascinating conversation.  What's so great about it too is there's not a clear-cut thing.  There are so many valid points that you can make  and have a long meaningful conversation  and there's so much evidence that maybe we can still find out there  and that's I think the best parts of history is the stuff  that isn't cut and dry that it still has interpretation  and still has work to be done,  which we can still do here with World War I.  All right with that, thanks to Great War for making this amazing episode there.  Great job on the overview.  Hopefully I was able to add a few things.  If you think there's anything that they missed and I missed,  you know, let me know down below, get some conversations going over there.  Some of the great places to talk is of course at our Discord server.  Again, thank you if you have been following this long.  This has been a long video, but this is great.  If you guys want to see me cover more Great War,  also make sure to let me know that too of what I should be checking out,  what you want to see me do.  All right with that, we'll see you next time.  Bye.  Bye. 