 Welcome to project management.  In this video, I'll talk about different types of organizational structures for project  management.  Once top management approves a project, it draws into the implementation stage.  Project implementation relies on how an organization is structured.  Three commonly used organizational structures for project management are listed here.  They are functional organization, dedicated project teams, and matrix structure.  We'll talk about them one by one.  Functional organization is a way to manage projects within the existing functional hierarchy  of the organization.  That means, once management decides to implement a project, the different segments of the project  are delegated to the respective functional units, each unit being responsible for completing  its own segment of the project.  Project coordination is maintained through normal management channels.  This structure is used when the interest of one functional area dominates the project.  This diagram is an example of a project that develops a new type of medical forehead thermometer  in a hypothetical company called Nova Digital.  At the top of this organization is the president.  Two supporting offices are human resources and finance and administration.  There are four divisions, engineering, manufacturing, procurement, and marketing.  The design, electronics, software, and mechanical departments within the engineering division  are responsible for creating the specifications to meet the needs of the customers.  The production scheduling, fabrication, assembly, and testing departments within the manufacturing  division are responsible for producing the thermometers according to the design specifications.  The purchasing and receiving departments are responsible for acquiring all the materials  needed for producing the thermometers from suppliers and vendors.  The customer service, domestic, and international sales departments within the marketing division  are responsible for determining the product demand and price, identifying distribution  channels, providing customer support, and collecting customer feedback.  The marketing division manager is given the authority to coordinate the project with other  division managers because marketing dominates this project.  There are several major advantages of using functional organization to manage projects.  One is that projects are completed within the original functional structure, so there  is no need for structural changes in the parent organization.  Another advantage is that there is a maximum flexibility in the use of staff.  Appropriate specialists in different functional units can temporarily be assigned to work  on a project and then return to their normal work.  The third advantage is that this structure works great if the scope of the project is  narrow.  Since a functional unit will take the primary responsibility, in-depth expertise can be  relied on to deal with the most crucial aspects of the project.  They will also get support from a broad base of technical personnel available in other  functional divisions and departments.  Finally, people can be switched among different projects relatively easily.  While specialists can make significant contributions to projects, their functional field is still  their professional home and the focus of their career growth and advancement.  One disadvantage of using functional organization to manage projects is lack of focus.  Each functional unit has its own core routine work to do.  Sometimes project responsibilities get pushed aside to meet primary obligations.  The same project has different priorities for different units.  For example, the marketing department may consider the project urgent while the manufacturing  people consider it only of secondary importance.  This could cause a great deal of tension between these two functional departments.  Another disadvantage is that there may be poor integration across functional units.  Functional specialists tend to be concerned with only their segment of the project and  not with what is best for the whole project.  The third disadvantage is that it generally takes longer to complete projects through  this project management structure.  Lastly, since one functional department is leading the project, other functional departments  that are not in charge may have a feeling of lack of ownership.  They may see this project as an additional burden that is not directly linked to their  professional development or advancement.  A dedicated project team is a way of managing projects as a separate unit in addition to  the functional divisions and departments in an organization.  A full-time project manager is designated to pull together a core group of specialists  from the relevant departments and they all work full-time on the project.  Team members could be recruited from within and outside the parent company.  Functional departments are responsible for providing support for these dedicated teams.  If projects are the dominant form of business, then an organization is called a projectized  organization.  This is an example.  One dedicated team is doing project 1 with a full-time manager and team members selected  from different functional units who work full-time on the single project.  Another dedicated team is doing project 2, and so on.  Functional departments are only playing the supporting role.  Lockheed Martin has been using this structure to develop next-generation jet airplanes.  It's called Lockheed Martin Skunk Works.  Skunk Works is code for a small dedicated team assigned to a breakthrough project.  There are a series of great YouTube videos explaining what Skunk Works is from the perspectives  of their senior systems engineer, program manager, and portfolio manager.  Watch these videos to learn more about Skunk Works.  There are several major advantages of using dedicated teams to manage projects.  First, this organizational structure is relatively simple.  A dedicated team will pull resources in the form of specialists from functional units.  And other than that, the functional department remains intact and operates independently  from the project team.  Second, projects tend to get done faster when participants devote their full attention to  the project and are not distracted by other obligations and duties.  Furthermore, response time tends to be quicker under this arrangement because most decisions  are made within the project team and are not deferred due to horizontal and then vertical  communications with other functional departments.  Third, a high level of motivation and cohesiveness often emerges within the dedicated project  team.  Participants share a common goal and personal responsibility toward the project.  Last, specialists from different functional areas work closely together with proper guidance  will be committed to optimizing the whole project, not their respective segments.  One disadvantage of using a dedicated team to work on a project is that they are relatively  expensive.  The project manager and all the team members are supposed to work on a single project full-time.  All the other resources needed will be allocated to one project only.  Close sharing within the organization with other functional departments or other project  teams is difficult.  Sometimes a dedicated project team becomes obsessed with their own right, and internal  strife emerges between the team and the remainder of the organization.  This divisiveness and even hostility can undermine the outcomes of the project.  In a dedicated team, technical expertise is limited somewhat to the talents and experience  of the specialists assigned to the project.  While the specialists can still consult with others in the functional division, the we-zee  syndrome and the fact that such help is not formal discourages this from happening.  Dedicated teams make it difficult for post-project transition.  Because a project is a temporary effort, team members will go back to their original  functional department after the project is completed.  The transition may be difficult because of their prolonged absence and the need to catch  up with recent development in their functional area.  The functional organization and the dedicated teams are at two extremes of organizational  structure for project management.  The matrix structure is a hybrid of the two.  In a matrix system, there are usually two chains of command, one along the vertical  functional lines and the other along the horizontal project lines.  Project participants report simultaneously to both functional and project managers.  Matrix structure optimizes the use of resources.  It allows for participation on multiple projects while performing normal functional duties.  This is a hypothetical example of matrix structure.  The top of this diagram shows the functional organization of the company.  There is a special division called director of projects in addition to other functional  divisions like engineering, manufacturing, and marketing.  The bottom of this diagram shows the ongoing projects 1 through N. All these project managers  report to the director, who supervises all projects.  Each project has one administrative assistant to help the project manager, and the one for  project N is only part-time.  That is why there is a 0.5 in the circle.  Project 1 involves the development of a new product.  It requires heavy participation of people from engineering, manufacturing, and marketing.  It has been assigned two designers, one electronics engineer, three software engineers, four assembly  engineers, one testing engineer, and one sales representative.  So there are a total of 14 people on the team.  Project N involves getting customers' feedback on a new software interface for an existing  product.  It only needs the involvement of one designer, two software engineers, and one customer service  specialist.  In a matrix structure, project managers and functional managers have different responsibilities.  A project manager's responsibilities include determining what has to be done, when should  a task be completed, how much money is available to do the task, how well should the task be  done, and so on.  A functional manager in a matrix structure will decide how a task will be done technically,  how the project involvement will impact normal functional activities, and how well the functional  input will be integrated.  It's the project manager and the functional manager's joint responsibilities to negotiate  and find out the answers to these questions like who exactly will be assigned to do a  specific task, where will the task be conducted, is the task satisfactorily completed, and  so on.  The matrix structure can be further divided into three different forms depending on the  relative authority of the project and functional managers.  The weak matrix form is very similar to a functional structure with the exception that  there is a formally designated project manager.  The authority of the functional managers predominates, and the project manager has indirect authority  and plays a supporting role to facilitate project completion.  In the balanced matrix form, the project manager sets the overall plan for the project and  the functional manager determines how work should be done technically.  The strong matrix form attempts to create the feel of a dedicated project team within  a matrix environment.  The project manager has broader control of most aspects of the project, and the functional  departments are supporting like subcontractors to the project.  There are several advantages of using the matrix structure to manage projects.  First, the matrix structure encourages resource sharing.  Resources can be efficiently and flexibly shared across multiple projects.  Individuals can divide their energy across multiple projects as needed.  Compared to the functional structure, the matrix structure has a relatively strong project  focus by having a formally designated project manager who is responsible for coordinating  and integrating contributions of different units.  Compared to the dedicated teams, the matrix structure makes it relatively easy for post-project  transition.  Specialists will maintain ties with their functional group, so they have a home to return  to once a project is completed.  One disadvantage of using a matrix structure is that the matrix approach may create tension  or conflicts between functional managers and project managers.  Such tension is necessary for achieving an appropriate balance between complex technical  issues and unique project requirements.  But sometimes the tension could degenerate into dysfunctional conflicts like heated arguments  and put the whole project at risk.  Resource sharing is the nature of the matrix structure.  Infighting can occur among project managers, who are primarily interested in what is best  for their own projects when they have to compete for limited resources like equipment, space,  finance, and people, which are being shared across projects and functional activities.  Also, matrix management violates the management principle of unity of command.  Project participants have at least two bosses, their functional manager and one or more project  managers.  Working in a matrix environment can be stressful because orders from the bosses may conflict  with each other.  Lastly, matrix management can be slow because agreements must be achieved among multiple  functional groups, and project scheduling depends on the availability of resources that  are shared with other projects.  We have talked about these three project management structures as well as their advantages and  disadvantages.  Then, what is the right structure for an organization?  To answer this question, we really need to determine how important the projects are to  the organization's success.  If they are really, really important and the organization cannot afford to fail, then a  strong matrix structure or dedicated teams are the best choice.  We also need to determine what percentage of core business involves projects.  If over 75% of work involves projects, then an organization should consider a fully projectized  structure with lots of dedicated teams.  If an organization has both projects and standard routine production activities, then a balanced  matrix structure would be appropriate.  If an organization has very few projects, then a less formal arrangement and a functional  structure is probably the best.  The level of available human and physical resources in an organization should also be  considered before determining the best project management structure.  If the need for sharing resources is high, the matrix structure is the best way to go  because it makes it easy to share resources across multiple projects and functional domains.  Another question is what is the right structure for a specific project?  It depends on a lot of factors like the size of the project, the strategic importance,  novelty and need for innovation, the number of departments involved, the amount of external  interactions, the budget and time constraints, and stability of resource requirements.  The higher the levels of these seven factors, the more authority and control the project  manager needs to be successful.  Therefore, a strong matrix structure or dedicated team should be used for large projects that  are strategically critical and are new to the company, thus requiring more innovation.  A strong matrix structure or dedicated project team would also be appropriate for complex,  multidisciplinary projects that require input from many departments as well as for projects  that require constant interactions with customers, suppliers, vendors, and subcontractors.  A strong matrix structure or dedicated project team should also be used for urgent projects  with a tight budget and for projects that require high availability of resources when  they are needed.  Okay, in this video, we identified different project management structures including functional  organization, dedicated project teams, and matrix structures.  We talked about their advantages and disadvantages.  We further identified three different types of matrix structures.  This is Yong Wang, and I'll see you in the next video. 