 Hi, I'm Dr. Jason J. Campbell, and I want to thank you for taking the time to watch my videos.  Um, quick video. I got a question.  Um, I've been working with this question for at least a decade.  At which point does esoteric knowledge become spirituality?  And then at which point does that spirituality then sort of digress and become scientific knowledge?  So there's a point at which you have sort of esoteric knowledge, not just sort of canonical knowledge.  And I know the audience that watches my videos, so I don't need to qualify these terms. You guys know what I'm talking about.  So you have sort of canonical knowledge, and then you have esoteric knowledge as sort of almost anomalous  with respect to canonical knowledge.  And the question that I'm asking is, at what point does that esoteric knowledge become spiritual?  Um, but it doesn't, for me, end there with respect to spirituality.  It becomes our obligation as sentient beings to make sense of that esoteric knowledge and ground it in this world  and ground it in something that's real and tangible and physical and, you know, something you can sense and touch and taste.  If it remains there, then it transcends our empirical abilities, and thus that's not what I'm talking about.  What I'm talking about specifically is the type of knowledge that at one time in our evolution  seemed as though it were spiritual, only now to manifest itself as practical science.  So, super heady, way to fuck out there kind of question, but it's all good.  Just, you know, leave your comments in the comment box, you know, tell me what you think.  Also tell me some of the scholars, esoteric scholars that you like.  I'll share one with you that I liked. My chair, Martin Schonfeld at University of South Florida.  Shout out to Martin, you're the best ever. I love you forever.  Introduced me to Christian Wolff. Good stuff.  I've moved on since then, but, you know, Christian Wolff was my first sort of dabble in sort of esoteric knowledge.  Leibniz's Modernology was kind of there, but then, you know, I needed to get way, way, way more.  Once you get the flavor of blood in your mouth, you know, you no longer hunt rabbits.  You want something that tastes a lot better.  So, my question to y'all is, one, who do you read that's really esoteric?  Like, what are your favorite esoteric authors?  You know, what's the content of esoteric scholarship that you're just completely obsessed with?  And two, how do you make sense of that sort of transition from the spiritual right back down into this world?  Right? It leaves this world because it's too avant-garde. It's too out there.  It's too anomalous. It's non-canonical.  Only to find itself right back smack dab in the middle of the canon.  With that, I hope you understand my question.  I'm sure you do, because I know who watches my videos.  I want to thank you for taking the time to watch my videos.  I'm Dr. Jason J. Campbell. Have a good day. 