 Note-taking apps are getting better and better these days and there are two that are leading,  that's no surprise, OneNote and Notion. So I'm going to compare both of these note-taking apps  so you'll be able to figure out what aspects you prioritize and choose which one is best for you.  So stay tuned! Now my name is Anna and I make videos about personal project management,  digital planning, and productivity so I'd like to welcome you. Now let's get started. First of all  let's focus on the main differences between them. Notion focuses on databases like functioning  tables, gallery, timeline, board view, and so on. Tasks can be moved across databases and you can  create subtasks within those tasks. So basically it's focused more on data collection and great  organization within your notes. Whereas with OneNote it's focused more on traditional note-  taking except of course on a digital level. Whereas with OneNote it is focused more on  traditional note-taking on a digital level of course. It has the pen slash stylus feature  where you can also draw and write over written text and images which is a huge thing for people  who prefer that kind of flexibility. It also has fonts and an infinite amount of horizontal as well  as vertical space to write on. So that's the gist of it. So first of all let's start with Notion.  So the pros with Notion are databases which is so beneficial what they're known for. You can  link subpages and create subpages within pages. It has a handy sidebar on the mobile app. It has  more structure which can be considered a pro or a con depending on what kind of person you are.  To-dos can be dragged and dropped into databases and it has great spreadsheet functionality when  it comes to a note-taking app. Now the cons however are there's no offline access. So if  you're a person who doesn't have data on their phone and you want to access your notes when  you're offline this will be a problem. You can't draw with a stylus. Also the fonts they're very  limited. So if you're a person who likes to customize your fonts a lot I'm sorry but it's  very limited. Everything is basically a database. You can't just add a simple plain text table. Also  when it comes to the ability of searching for text within a page that is not an option either.  Now when it comes to OneNote. So first of all the pros. I have to mention this because this is the  way I actually found out about OneNote was that they have a free drawing option. If you're a  stylus user or you have a tablet and you like to draw graphs and basically have a more traditional  way of writing then this is a huge plus. Now they have lots of fonts as well and they have  offline access. When it comes to their membership it's just completely free. It also supports  handwriting recognition if you're into that and you use that kind of feature. There is also a  password protection option for your sectors of your notebooks. As well as the ability to have  text written everywhere and anywhere and how the page is infinite vertically as well as horizontally.  Now when it comes to the cons. First of all the OneNote app lacks a sidebar. However from my  personal experience comparing the OneNote app to the Notion app I prefer the OneNote app more.  It also has no databases because that's not the focus of this app and unlike Notion it does not  have any integrations because Notion has a lot of options to integrate with other apps whereas  OneNote not at all. And when it comes to the table option it is very very very basic and yeah if you  prefer more of a structure OneNote is definitely more messy looking I'd say. At the end of the day  these two apps are very different from each other with different priorities so it depends on what  your preferences are. So in summary I'd say that Notion is for someone who prefers more structure  and more data collection and organization and maybe like a mini stepping stone towards getting  more used to I would say project management apps because it does feel like a project management app  and a note-taking app got together and made Notion. That's what it feels like to me. Whereas  with OneNote it's more for a person who loves creative freedom and the option to customize a lot  and are more traditional when it comes to their note-taking. For example a stylus or they're just  trying to go a more digital route and they were a big note-taker when using physical notebooks.  I hope this video made your decision a little easier. Let me preface by saying that both of  these apps are great for planning and organizing your life. I have playlists for both planning in  OneNote and planning in Notion if you'd like more tips on how to use either of the apps. Which one  do you prefer OneNote or Notion and why? I'd love to get your opinions. If this video was helpful to  you in any way please give it a like and subscribe for more content like this. I hope you have a  wonderful day and I will see you next time. Ciao! 