 Hello and thanks for watching this Acumatica video on customer contracts.  So today we're going to go through the setup, activate, and renewal process of a relatively  simple contract.  This contract will be for software where we have our setup fee and then our renewal fee.  So to get started, let's create a new contract.  We'll give it an ID.  In Acumatica you can auto-sequence this if you want.  We'll give it a contract template.  And the contract template will bring in a lot of our settings.  So these settings include how long the term is, what the renewal period and the grace  period is, who to bill, how to bill them.  So let's take a quick look at the contract template and then we'll finish our contract.  So the contract template has a certain type, renewable, expiring, and unlimited.  Expiring is essentially the period, the duration of the contract.  But at the end, you can't renew it.  Renewable is similar but you can continue to renew it at the end of the period.  Unlimited means the contract has no end date.  It just goes on forever.  And this may be applicable if you're using the contract to do, for example, a monthly  billing.  So here's our duration.  So it's one year, but we can choose different increments here if we want to.  If the contract is refundable, we turn this on here, the refund period within 30 days.  Mass renewal allows us to open up a process screen where we can see all of our contracts  and renew them from one place.  But if you want to handhold this contract, then you may uncheck this.  Our renewal period is 30 days before it expires.  This means that inside the contract, we can do an actions renew 30 days prior to the expiration.  So we have that window.  It also means that after the expiration date, we still have 30 days before we can renew  the contract.  After that 30-day period, the contract will be set to expire and the only thing you could  do is create a new contract.  These enable items allow us to override the contract template.  So the detailed items which are shown here, can I override those?  Well, I can if I turn this on.  When I generate an invoice from a contract, do I want to automatically release or look  at the invoice and release it manually?  I'm going to keep that off.  This contract template that we're creating right now has an effective date as of January  2012.  And it's no longer valid after this date.  We don't have that turned on, but you can make these templates go active and expire  after a certain period of time.  Contracts have a setup, an activation, have a billing period, potentially, and a renewal  period.  And these different areas of the contract go into effect based on the timing of the  contract.  And one of these settings gives us the ability to continually bill on a regular basis from  this contract.  So for example, I can have this automatically have a recurring fee monthly of a certain  amount if I turn that on.  If I don't need that, and in this case, because we're just renewing this software at the end  of the year, we're not going to use this setting, we'll set it to on demand.  If you are doing recurring billing, who do you bill?  Is it the customer?  Is it another account altogether?  Or is it the parent of the customer?  And then when does the billing schedule start?  Acumatica has a setup and an activation date.  Setup is a setup period of time where it maybe takes you some period of time to provision  software for example.  But do we want to start the billing at that setup time or after the activation?  There's another period of time in the contract called the activation that you can run it.  And then this recurring billing can occur at that time instead of this time.  When I generate a bill, do I want every line item from details to show up in the invoice  or do I just want one summary line item?  That's your option here.  And this gives us the invoice and line descriptions.  So when we generate an invoice, invoices have descriptions.  Those descriptions show up inside the invoice form.  They also show on the invoice printout.  They even show up on the customer statements.  So they're pretty useful.  And how do you want those descriptions to be formatted?  You can click here and pull out any fields from the contract and have them show up on  the invoice.  Same thing with the line items.  If we were doing a case count, for example, in this contract you get five cases per month,  then we'd use a non-stock item here.  These are the details of the contract.  So as we mentioned before, there's a setup, there's a recurring, that's the billing settings,  and there's a renewal.  In this case, software license 01 is $10,000 and it renews at $10,000.  The second line item here, it's setups for $4,000 and then at the renewal we only charge  $800.  So let's go back into our contract and let's continue to set it up.  So we'll pick our customer.  We can choose the location.  We have a setup date, an activation date, and an expiration date.  Again, the setup date could be maybe 10 days before.  Maybe it takes a few days for your IT team to get things set up for the customer.  But in this case, it's 6-3 and 6-3.  The expiration date is calculated based on that year that we defined.  Our renewal point and grace period came in from the contract template, as did our billing  information and our invoice and line formulas.  So here's our details for the contract.  These are the two line items, and they have a setup, a recurring amount of zero, and a  renewal price.  Now if we click on this item code, this is actually a contract item.  And we call it a contract item because it's specific for contracts.  It's not just, for example, a non-stock item.  So some of the things that make this different than a typical non-stock item, first off is  what is the quantity that I want to use in contracts?  In this case, we always want to use quantity one for this contract item.  So maximum, minimum, and this is the default.  When we generate an invoice based on the setup, what non-stock item code do we want to use?  The reason we have that is our non-stock items carry a few pieces of information that we  still need to generate an invoice.  We need to know how do we bill it, for example, what GL accounts to use, so our posting class.  We need to know, for example, the price.  In this case, we're taking the default price over $10,000.  And we need to know what GL accounts to use.  So if the posting class is pointing back to the item, what's our revenue account here?  In this case, it's $40,000.  So that's why we have contract items and then non-stock items inside of them.  And a better example of that is the renewal item.  We may need to use a different renewal item than the setup item.  And the reason for that is because perhaps we want to track new sales versus renewal sales.  And notice right here, we can use the item codes price, the non-stock items code price,  or we can choose a specific amount.  So $10,090.  And maybe our renewal price will be $10,800.  It's going to go up a little bit.  Here's our summary of those charges.  Our recurring billing is none.  So therefore, all of this is grayed out.  So let's save this.  Let's go back.  And what you can see here is these are still grayed out because these items were added before.  But if I go here and I delete this and I add this line item again,  I can now edit these numbers because these numbers were defined in the contract item.  I can't edit this because this one pulls from the non-stock item itself.  And because we allow enable override in our contract template,  this allows us to make changes to this on the fly.  So this way, we can negotiate our pricing with the customer  and make changes when we get to creating the contract.  You can also use promo codes here.  So you can have certain discounts set up and then use them here  if the customer is maybe taking advantage of a certain discount that you're running, promo.  Recurring summary would show up here if we were using the billing settings.  We're not.  Our contract history gives us the ability to keep track of what's happened with this contract.  It was created on this date by this user.  And then if we go in here and we set up and activate this contract,  we'll do so on this 6-3 date.  Now you can see this extra event that's occurred.  So we can keep track of what's going on here.  If we go over to AR history, we can see the invoice that was generated from our contract.  Let's take a look at it.  Because we're showing detail, we can see the two contract items.  We can see the setup fee of $800.  This particular customer is getting a number of different line discounts  that they're eligible for automatically.  Now when we're ready to renew this, we can come to Actions and click Renew,  or we can go to Contract.  Under Processes, we can do our Renew Contracts.  Any contracts that are eligible through that 60-day period we talked about,  the grace period and the renewal period,  they'll all show up here.  You can choose and move this date forward or backwards to do all your renewals.  And this gives you a quick idea of how to use Acumatica  to bill a contract and then renew it at a given period.  Could be monthly, could be quarterly, could be yearly in this case is what we did.  We're generating all our invoices.  We're keeping track of who's doing the work with the contracts.  And this allows us to ensure we don't miss any invoices  that are supposed to go out the door for our customers.  And an opportunity to upgrade the customer.  So in our next video, we'll talk about how we can use contracts  to generate invoices based on billable activities  using our support case management system.  But that's it for now.  If you have any questions, our contact information is at the end of the video.  Thanks so much for watching. 