 I don't want it to end.  We had two secular bernie features.  Is that the technical term?  I'm just so content digging holes.  Was that a good archaeology chat for you?  What do you want me to do?  I don't mind a camera in my face.  We're I think three days, two days.  I don't even know what day it is.  End of dig place, which happens every year, surprisingly, especially here.  It's been insane and cool and wonderful and I'm exhausted and probably like three shades  darker and I haven't looked in a mirror for about 48 hours.  So I'm hoping for the best.  It's been a phenomenal two weeks, not least the weather that we've had that has made everything  so possible.  It's been better than than I could have hoped for going into this.  I don't want it to end.  Not quite yet.  Not quite yet.  It's bizarre to think that we're we're really nearly done.  But you know what?  The best things always happen right at the last minute.  So who knows what's about to happen today and tomorrow?  Well it's some kind of ceramic of industrial waste.  Yeah, yeah.  So we'll just put that down as industrial waste, that down as slag, all of that and  the coal goes out.  Right?  Yeah.  Cool.  But that's coal as well.  I know that is charcoal.  I would put it all, I would just put it all in as industrial debris.  Okay, cool.  Thank you.  To be honest, it's all part and parcel of the same thing.  And that is 382.  382.  Are these finished samples, the small ones?  That one is, that one isn't quite yet.  Is that a special one?  That's from inside of there.  Yeah, but does, do you know if that needs a red tag?  Is that one that will need special processing or?  Potentially not, I'm not sure to be honest.  Okay.  Okay, thanks.  What's been really good in terms of the digging is probably because we have less people, we've  been able to really focus on the digging and make phenomenal progress.  We've taken it down probably more in this season than we have for the last previous  two seasons put together.  And that's really cleared things up in terms of our understanding of the site, our understanding  of the sequence.  And quite enigmatically, that whole feature in the northwest corner, the mystery circular  features has really started to come alive.  We've started to really understand what's going on there.  So very, very excited by this season.  Really excited about the metalworking site.  It's, well, I've never excavated one before.  So it's a challenge for me.  The specialists all seem excited about it too.  We're having to deal with it quite carefully because you don't find them every day.  And it's something we're going to have to be thinking long and hard about over the next  year before we come back.  Hi Jerry, can you hear me?  How long have you got left?  Have you just got next week or?  No, just three more days after today.  Don't say that!  It's basically a time team, isn't it?  Three days to find out.  Right, OK.  The critical thing we need to do really is to confirm that it's a smithy.  If you could take some samples just so that we can look at them and confirm that it is  hammer scale.  And obviously what we want to really understand is, is it where they're producing, you know,  high quality artefacts or shearing horses, basically.  It's something I've never done before, a kind of remote phone call on site.  But nonetheless, you know, nowadays you can send photos, you can send phone images.  The value of doing the 3D modelling really came out as well.  So he was able to look at all those and we were able to do a little conference on site.  And he was able to tell us that actually we've got a smithy area.  It is important.  I don't think any of us quite realised how important it was, to be honest.  On a scale of 1 to 10, how cool is it to have an early medieval smithy on Lindisfarne?  On a scale of 1 to 10, about 20.  Everybody thinks smithies are everywhere, but they're not.  They are very, very new and far between.  And if this is, you know, one of those high status smithies producing those really intricate,  high value objects, then it's even more important.  It's amazing to find it here on Lindisfarne, the centre of the early medieval monastery.  My friend is just very content digging holes.  It's what I like anyway.  Well, before we actually lift the sample, I'll mark on present day magnetic north.  So I'll put a north arrow on there, using magnetic compass.  Well, Anne came from the University of Bradford and she's doing a PhD here.  And what she's looking at is archaeomagnetic dating.  And very basically, we know that magnetic north actually changes in position over time.  And if you heat something up and cool it down again,  if it's heated up enough and cooled down enough,  it will kind of preserve where magnetic north was at the point that heating happened.  So if you've got something like a hearth or a fireplace which hasn't moved and it's been heated up,  you can actually date, using that principle as a way of dating it.  So the key thing for us is to put some absolute dates on that relative sequence of events.  And by using that, and also by using things like carbon 14 dating,  which we can use on the charcoal and the human bone and any finds we get,  that all comes together and we integrate all these different types of evidence  to help us build up a sense of what actually happened over time and when it happened.  We're on a bit of a cliffhanger because we've basically had to admit  that we're not going to get everything done this time  and we're going to have to come back and look at it in more detail next year.  Radio carbon date.  We can do a radio carbon date dance.  Radio carbon date.  Anyway, I wanted to show you something else. Wait.  So remember that thing that you found?  Yes.  That tiny thing.  The tiny, tiny, tiny thing.  Because it's actually found with a neonate, right?  Yes.  So I sent it to Hannah, who will look at all the bones.  And Hannah then actually said that she thinks it's part of the tale of a baby dolphin.  No!  That's so tiny.  It reminds me also, it reminds her of these.  Right.  And ours is obviously much smaller and she thinks it might be a tale of vertebrae  from a baby dolphin or a porpoise.  So we've had whale, seal.  And now we might have dolphin.  And now dolphin, possibly.  Or porpoise.  Or porpoise.  That is well spotted.  Well spotted.  If I may say so myself.  And do you know how it works in archaeology?  Sometimes the best things come out at the end?  Yes.  What do you want me to say?  See, the thing is, when it comes to the end of the dig,  I'm already halfway with my brain in like, we need to get everything packed up.  So if they came up with something on the last day that was huge  and that actually needed to be processed or cleaned or whatever,  then I would probably lose my mind.  Jill here found this stone while she was cleaning the pebbles  and it has a hole that goes through.  And this is the first pebble that we found.  It actually has a hole and it goes through.  We checked, we actually poked something through.  Covid has changed the finds women so far as it is a bit more difficult  to look at things together.  Things are sometimes very small, so you have to come really close  and then if you're trying to show somebody else,  that is difficult because we just can't get as close  as we would normally with our heads.  2020 has been such a sucker punch.  You know, there's just feels like there's no relief.  And being out here in the kind of weather that we've had  has been a factor because you feel comfortable being outside  and being outside right now is a really necessary thing  for feeling comfortable, I think.  So thankfully the weather has really helped us in that regard  because if it was chucking it down or really freezing or whatever,  you know, it would have been so much harder.  For a large proportion of our venturers,  it's been the first time that they've been out and doing something  since the start of lockdown and it's been really, really positive  and I think people have just been so happy to be out  and interacting with other people again.  We're keeping people in their own pods, little work groups.  We've got one-way systems.  We're wearing gloves, face masks, really going the whole hog.  Yeah, it's been weird. I think there's no doubting that.  The place where I felt it least is actually on site.  When you're actually on site doing the archaeology,  we've not had to change what we do much.  We've got processes and systems to make sure people don't interact too much  but the actual physical digging hasn't changed that much  apart from everybody having to wear masks.  But then again, it does keep all the dust out of your eyes  and out of your mouth and nose anyway.  Have you guys figured the one-way system out yet?  Yeah.  I'm still getting used to it.  There are aspects of what we've done to change how the site works  that I think, ironically, we're actually going to keep going forward  but it'll take me some time to get used to the idea  of a one-way system on a site.  I'm not sure I'm very good at that one.  All my early med-mates are just like,  oh, yeah, that's really, really interesting.  Yeah, just keep on my way.  You've got early med-mates?  Yeah, early med-mates.  As I said, I think this has been the best season.  I know we've not found any whizzy stuff.  We've not found gaming pieces or sculpture  but we've found lots of pictures and stratigraphy  and actually we've got a proper site  which isn't just layers of rubble interleaved with skeletons  which is kind of defined in previous years.  So in terms of actual making progress on the archaeology,  I've been, yeah, it's brilliant.  I think the key thing would be a date from one of the graves  cutting the big feature,  a date from the charcoal from the base of the big feature  and maybe a date from one of the charcoal-y bits.  I'd certainly like to move, expand into the metalworking area  because that is kind of where it's all happening.  It's where the coins are coming out.  It's where all the structural stuff is.  So there's no harm in taking it larger than we can fit it in.  Go big or go home.  I think the digger should be here in the next three quarters of an hour.  So if we can get it all ready so he can just charge straight in  and get that one backfilled, that would be great.  It's been a strange year.  It's weird not being in the field.  It's good to get out and about and get digging again.  It feels like we've really come together to rise to a challenge  and I think, I feel that we've been really successful.  Archaeology waits for no one.  Archaeology waits for no one, as they say.  Neither does the tide, so...  No, I said, can I just put my stuff in the car?  What do you want me to do?  Put your stuff in the car.  It was very nice, there was a really nice atmosphere everywhere  and people really enjoyed it, people really loved it.  So I think they had a good time and so did I.  My highlight has been the sense of freedom  of walking around the island  and that sense of space and openness  has been the thing that I've clearly been missing all of this time.  Oh, David! You should have asked for help!  And I can see it on everybody's faces as well,  the being outside, the being amongst people,  the coming together to make a difference.  The coming together to make something happen,  that has been my highlight.  It's just this place has been amazing.  This island where, you know, twice a day the tide cuts you off  and you've got the views of two castles in the background,  the amazing wildlife, the sunsets, the sunrises,  the beaches and the swimming.  It's all a little microcosm of a little paradise.  For those of you who know DigVentures at all,  we had a dig dog called Fergus  and Fergus was with me for 17 years  and he was with this team for at least 40 digs.  He was the consummate professional  and we lost Fergus whilst we were on site this year  and I know that's kind of like a downer thing to mention  but when I think about my highlights,  it was being able to spend those final moments with him here  because he loved Lindisfarne.  DigVentures  DigVentures  DigVentures  and DigVentures  DigVentures  Hi honey.  Hello!  Hello.  Jobs are good, aren't they? 