 The Customer Service Management application enables you to provide service and support to your external customers...  ... by offering omni-channel service through different communication channels...  ... such as self-service, phone, chat, virtual agent, email, event monitoring, and social media.  Customers can use these channels to ask questions, make a request, report issues, or bring attention to other problems.  With CSM, you or your customers can create cases and route those cases to available customer service agents with the necessary skill sets.  This allows you to provide a wide range of self-service options based on your customers...  ... what they own and what they're entitled to...  ... offer a service catalog for submitting requests...  ... and work efficiently between your teams and departments using workflow and collaboration.  CSM extends service management to the external customer...  ... making it effortless to engage using capabilities like request management or change management to service your customers.  It also helps connect those tasks throughout the enterprise using workflow and task automation...  ... to make sure they're distributed to the right teams, departments, and individuals.  With Customer Aware Service Operations, you can monitor the health of customers' products and services to proactively create cases and fix issues.  Let's see how this looks from the customer end.  Julie is a customer of Acme Corporation.  She has access to their branded customer service portal, where she has a tailored experience based on the products her company has purchased.  Here, she can do things like report an issue...  ... browse the service catalog...  ... ask questions in the community...  ... search the knowledge base...  ... and access her open cases.  She can do a search here for anything she might be looking for.  Julie's been having an issue with her dashboards running slowly...  ... so she clicks here to get help.  Here, she can submit a case to report the issue she's having.  All she needs to do is fill out this form with her case details.  Any existing knowledge base articles that relate to her issue, based on keywords in her short description, will appear here.  And a case is opened that she can monitor until it's resolved.  John is a support agent, and he can track new and existing cases through the agent workspace.  It looks like he received the case Julie opened...  ... so he accepts it to start assisting with her issue.  Opening the form displays various information and tools to assist him in resolving Julie's issue.  He can view knowledge articles that might offer some assistance...  ... by selecting the Agent Assist tab and scrolling through them here.  John locates a newly published KB article that the customer may have overlooked.  He thinks it'll help Julie troubleshoot her issue...  ... so he attaches it to the case for her to review...  ... and adds a comment to let her know.  All comments made between the agent and the customer are tracked here.  And look, it seems that the knowledge base article was able to help Julie with her issue.  Knowing that Julie was able to resolve the issue with the information in the article...  ... John can now propose to close the case.  Once Julie's confident the issue is truly resolved, she can accept John's proposal to close the case.  And with the CSM dashboard, you can monitor and improve your KPIs to drive results.  Here, the supervisor can see the agent's change in workload...  ... and an update to the first contact resolution and CSAT...  ... once the survey is completed by the customer.  With CSM, you can provide omni-channel support to all of your customers by creating cases...  ... and routing to the agents with the necessary skills, capacity, and availability.  For more information, please see our product documentation, knowledge base, or podcast.  Or ask a question in the ServiceNow Community.  www.servesnow.com 