 Welcome to GetChemistryHelped.com.  My name is Dr. Kent, and this is going to be a really brief lesson on chemical formulas.  Now a chemical formula is basically a shorthand way of expressing the types of atoms and the  number of atoms that are present in a substance.  So for example, one chemical formula you've probably heard of is H2O, so that's the chemical  formula for water.  Another one you might have heard of is carbon dioxide, is CO2.  So these are just shorthand ways that express the type and the number of atoms.  Okay so here's another one.  So H2SO4 is sulfuric acid.  Why don't we just take a second and break this down and try to decipher exactly what  this is telling me.  Okay well H, that's telling me, that's the symbol for hydrogen.  So there's hydrogen.  How many hydrogens?  Well the subscript after the hydrogen tells me there are two hydrogens present.  How about S?  Well S is the symbol for the element sulfur.  Now notice there isn't a subscript here, so if there isn't a subscript we just assume  that means there's only one.  O, that's the symbol for oxygen, and the subscript is four, so there must be four oxygens.  So sulfuric acid is composed of two hydrogen atoms, one sulfur atom, and four oxygen atoms.  Well how about water?  Well water must be two hydrogens and one oxygen.  Carbon dioxide must be one carbon and two oxygens.  Now sometimes in a chemical formula it's useful to use parentheses so we can clarify what's  going on with the actual structure or the composition.  So for example, this molecule here is TNT, which is a very famous explosive I'm sure  you've heard of.  So TNT is C7H5 parenthesis NO2 parenthesis 3.  So these parentheses are trying to set off this NO2 group as being separate, and the  subscript outside tells me well there are three of the NO2 groups.  So the subscript basically multiplies whatever is inside the parentheses.  So in our case, let's see, how many carbons do we have?  We have seven carbons, we have five hydrogens right here, then we have these NO2 groups  we have three.  Well how many nitrogens are there?  Well we multiply by three whatever is inside, so we have three nitrogens.  How many oxygens are there?  Well again we multiply by three, so two times three, there must be six oxygens.  So there you go, TNT has seven carbons, five hydrogens, three times one, three nitrogens,  three times two, six oxygens.  Okay so let's wrap it up with a few examples.  The first one says Mg3 parenthesis PO4 parenthesis 2, and the way we would commonly say that  by the way is Mg3 PO4 taken twice.  So we'd say taken for whatever was in parenthesis.  So Mg3 PO4 taken twice, because of the two here.  So this one has magnesium, that's Mg, has phosphorous, that's P, and it has oxygen,  that's the O.  Well how many magnesiums do we have?  In this case there's three magnesiums.  How many phosphorous do we have?  Well there's one in every PO4 group and there's two of those groups, so we would have two  phosphorous.  How about oxygen?  Well there's four in every PO4 group and there's two of those, so two times four we  would have eight.  So in terms of total atoms, we would have three plus two plus eight, we'd have 13 total  atoms in the structure for Mg3 PO4 taken twice.  Okay how about the next one, C2H4 OH taken twice.  So we've got carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen I see present.  How many carbons?  Well two.  How many hydrogens?  Okay this one's a little sneaky because there's four hydrogens here, but there's more hydrogens  in the parenthesis.  So there's one in the parenthesis, but there are two of these groups, so two times one  would give me two more.  So a total of six hydrogens.  How about oxygen?  So there's one inside the parenthesis times two, so two total oxygens.  So this would have ten total atoms are in C2H4 OH taken twice.  Okay last one, Al2 S2O3 taken three times.  Al2 S2O3 taken three times.  So we've got Al, that's aluminum, we've got sulfur, that's S, and we've got O, that's  oxygen.  So how many aluminums?  Well two.  How many sulfurs?  Well there's two, but again it's inside parenthesis, so we multiply that by the number outside.  So this subscript three times this subscript two gives me six sulfurs.  How about oxygens?  Well there's a subscript three, multiply it by this subscript three, so that gives me  nine oxygens.  So we'd have a total of seventeen atoms in this compound.  Well I hope you enjoyed this brief lesson.  Be sure to click on the subscribe button so you can be notified as soon as new videos  are posted, and we'll see you next time.  Thank you. 