 Hi, this is Tom from ZeroToFinals.com. In this video I'm going to be talking about vertigo  and specifically trying to understand the causes of vertigo. Vertigo is a descriptive  term for a sensation that there's movement between the patient and their environment.  So they may describe that they're moving or that the room is moving and often this is  a horizontal spinning sensation, similar to the sensation you'd get when spinning on a  swing and then abruptly stopping and the environment continues to feel like it's moving around  you. Vertigo is often associated with nausea, vomiting, maybe a sweating sensation and generally  feeling unwell. So let's go through the pathophysiology of vertigo. Vertigo is caused by a mismatch  between the sensory inputs that are responsible for maintaining your posture and these inputs  are vision from your eyes, proprioception from your joints and signals from the vestibular  system. The vestibular system is the most important sensory system to understand when  we're learning about vertigo. The vestibular apparatus is located on the inner ear. It  consists of three loops called the semicircular canals that are filled with a fluid called  endolymph. These semicircular canals are oriented in different directions to detect different  movements of the head. So as the head turns, the fluid shifts within the canals. This shift  in fluid is detected by small hairs called stereocilia that are found in a section of  the canals called the ampulla. This sensory input of shifting fluid is transmitted to  the brain by the vestibular nerve and it lets the brain know that the head is moving in  a particular direction. So essentially this vestibular system is important for detecting  movement of the head. The vestibular nerve carries signals from the vestibular apparatus  to the vestibular nucleus in the brainstem and also to the cerebellum. The vestibular  nucleus then sends signals to the oculomotor, the trochlear and abducens nuclei which are  responsible for controlling eye movements and also to the thalamus, the spinal cord  and the cerebellum. The cerebellum is responsible for coordinating movement throughout the body.  So therefore the vestibular signals help the central nervous system coordinate eye movements  and movements throughout the body. Vertigo can be caused by either a peripheral problem  usually affecting the vestibular system or by a central problem usually affecting the  brainstem or the cerebellum. So first let's talk about vestibular problems and there's  a number of vestibular causes of vertigo. The three most common causes to be familiar  with are benign paroxysmal positional vertigo, Meniere's disease and vestibular neuritis.  First let's talk about benign paroxysmal positional vertigo or BPPV. This is caused  by crystals of calcium carbonate which are called otoconia that become displaced into  the semicircular canals. They may be displaced by a viral infection, head trauma, ageing  or without any clear cause at all. These crystals disrupt the normal flow through the canals  and therefore disrupt the function of the system. The symptoms are usually positional  because movement is required to confuse the system and when the patient becomes completely  still there's no disruption to that movement of fluid so they're symptom free. Therefore  the attacks of vertigo are triggered by movement and they can last around a minute before the  symptoms settle. Often symptoms occur over several weeks and then resolve but they can  reoccur weeks or months later. A special test called the Hall-Pike manoeuvre can be  used to diagnose BPPV. Next let's talk about Meniere's disease and this is thought to be  caused by an excessive build up of endolymph in the semicircular canals causing a higher  pressure than normal which disrupts the sensory signals. It causes attacks of hearing loss,  tinnitus, vertigo and a sensation of fullness in the ear. These attacks typically last several  hours before they settle down and it often occurs in middle-aged adults and is not associated  with movement so the symptoms are not positional. Patients will have spontaneous nystagmus during  the attacks where the eyes flicker backwards and forwards. Over time the patient's hearing  will gradually deteriorate between attacks. Finally let's talk about acute vestibular  neuronitis which describes inflammation of the vestibular nerve and this is usually attributed  to a viral infection. However it can occur without any other symptoms of the viral infection.  The disruption to the function of vestibular nerve leads to a mismatch in signals to the  brain causing vertigo. Usually the history is of an acute onset vertigo that lasts for  several weeks before gradually resolving. There are several other peripheral causes  of nystagmus and these are trauma to the vestibular nerve, vestibular nerve tumours, particularly  acoustic neuromas, otosclerosis, hyperviscosity syndromes and herpes zoster infection which  often occurs with facial nerve weakness and vesicles around the ear which is known as  Ramsey-Hunt syndrome. Next let's talk about central causes of vertigo. Pathology that  affects the cerebellum or the brainstem disrupts the signals from the vestibular system and  causes vertigo. The most common cause of pathology that results in a central cause of vertigo  are posterior circulation infarction which is basically a stroke in this area, tumours,  multiple sclerosis and vestibular migraine. All of the central causes of vertigo will  cause a sustained non-positional vertigo because they aren't caused by disruption to the movement  of fluid within the semicircular canals, they're caused by disruption to the interpretation  of signals within the central nervous system itself. First let's talk about posterior  circulation infarction and these patients will have a sudden onset of vertigo that may  be associated with other symptoms such as ataxia, diplopia or double vision, other cranial  nerve defects or limb weakness. Tumours in the cerebellum or the brainstem will have  a gradual onset with associated symptoms of cerebellar or brainstem dysfunction. Multiple  sclerosis may cause relapsing and remitting symptoms with other features of MS such as  optic neuritis or transverse myelitis. And vestibular migraine will cause symptoms that  last minutes to hours often associated with visual aura and a headache. So finally a brief  summary of the causes of vertigo. The top peripheral causes to remember are benign paroxysmal  positional vertigo, Meniere's disease and acute vestibular neuronitis. And the top central  causes to remember are posterior circulation infarction, tumours in the cerebellum or brainstem,  multiple sclerosis and vestibular migraine. Thanks for watching this video. If you found  it helpful please consider giving it a thumbs up and subscribing to follow the channel and  find out as more videos come out. You can also find written notes with illustrations  on the Xerodefinals website at xerodefinals.com and on the website you can also find a podcast  that can help you learn on the go, questions to test your knowledge and the Xerodefinals  books. Follow the link in the description to pick up a copy of the Xerodefinals medicine  book. It contains detailed and concise notes on 10 specialties in medicine and it's designed  specifically to contain the key facts and guidelines you need to know for your medical  exams. With mnemonics and tom tips to help you learn exactly what you need to know for  your exams without all the hassle. Follow the links to find out more. 