 Alright, now let's check out the next organelle which is, it has a lot of names  but I like to call it Golgi Body because it's really simple but it can be also  known as Golgi Apparatus or it can be known as the Golgi Complex. And basically  what it is, it's over here, and basically what it is, it's just a stack of  flattened sacks, okay? And there can be more than one in an animal cell but  generally I think you'll just come across one during your A-level and we're  gonna keep it simple for our sake. And it's constantly being formed at one end  of the ER and it's broken down again on the other to form Golgi vesicles. So  basically its process is, it collects processes and sorts molecules ready for  transportation. And an example would be, as I've written here, addition of sugar  to proteins. So for example, to form a glycoprotein or it can be the removal  of amino acids to form a functional protein or for example in plants, it can  be used, the enzymes convert the sugars to a cell wall so a functional, you know,  a structural component which then will be used to build the cell wall of the  plant. So let's go ahead and take an actual look at the process which has  four steps. Well, it's made here, written down here in four steps. So basically in  the first step, the proteins are made by the ribosomes in the rough endoplasmic  reticulum and then are pinched off into vesicles. So it's made in the rough  endoplasmic reticulum and then it's made into vesicles. So here it is, a transport  vesicle. Alright? And then the second step, the vesicles containing the proteins  fuse into the Golgi body where the proteins are modified. So the purpose of  the Golgi body happens. And then the third step, the vesicles containing the  modified proteins break away from the Golgi body. So here. And then, so it's also  known as the secretory vesicle. And then the fourth step is simply exocytosis. So  the vesicle fuses with the cell surface membrane, releasing the proteins to the  outside cell. So it's just a simple four-step process and I recommend you  remembering this. Next, let's check out lysosomes, which are basically spherical  sacs with no internal structure. And they contain hydrolytic or digestive enzymes,  which are responsible for the breakdown of old and unwanted organelles. And why  is it contained in these sacs? It's because you don't want the entire cell  to be digested. So it's contained in these protective sacs and they're only  used where they need to be. By the way, this is an animal cell. I just wanted an  enlarged or zoomed version of a lysosome because over here you can see the  lysosome is only a circle. And it's a single membrane and it's around 0.1 to  0.5 micrometers. An example of where these would be used is in mammary glands.  After lactation, they digest away the lactating cells or lactating the  organelles which are responsible for lactation, I mean. And or another example  would be a more common example would be in white blood cells where these  lysosomes are used to digest the bacteria. And now let's move on to the  next organelle, which is known as the mitochondrion. Now as soon as you see  mitochondrion, you should realize that this is the powerhouse of the cell. This  is where all the energy is made and is released and it's what keeps your body  going. Now here in the diagram, you can see that the mitochondrion is this  specific structure and the function of the mitochondrion, so if you want the  mark, is responsible for aerobic respiration. It provides energy for the  cell. Energy is released from energy-rich molecules through a series of steps. Now  these series of steps you will learn, for example, glycolysis etc etc in A2 and you  don't need to know that but you need to know that it is a series of steps. The  secondary function is synthesis of lipids but this is the main function. Now  a rough estimate as to the size would be around one micrometer in diameter and  muscle cells, so cells which make up your muscle muscle tissue will have more of  these mitochondrion because they require more energy. Now let's take a look at the  mitochondrion structure because it's very well suited for its purpose. Now  just like the nucleus, the mitochondrion is a double membrane organelle. So first  let's look at the inner membrane. The inner membrane is more selective, okay? So  it controls more strictly what enters and leaves the mitochondrion. The inner  membrane makes these folds and these folds are labeled as here as cristae and  now you may ask why are there these folds? Well it's pretty simple really and  I think it's a year 7 thing or something like that. It basically it  increases surface area and therefore it makes the reactions which happens, more  reactions to happen, therefore it's more efficient. So whenever you say like why  is there cristae, you just say it's because it increases surface area,  therefore it increases efficiency because it allows more reactions to take  place, okay? And then there is the outer membrane which is more permeable, however  it does not allow H2O soluble molecules to go in, therefore it has these things  called transport membrane proteins. The specific ones are called aquaporins and  it forms aqueous channels to allow the H2O soluble molecules to pass through  into the intermembrane space. Now I keep mentioning intermembrane space, well  maybe not keep mentioning, but the intermembrane space is the space between  the inner and the outer membrane and it is a very important space which you will  need to know in A2, but you but you still need to know this for AS, so you just  need to know that that's the space between the inner and the outer membrane.  Now cristae, as I mentioned, are these finger like projections and then there's  the matrix which is the interior solution. Now there are the other things  called granules, ribosomes, and ATP synthase. Now this thing is an enzyme  which is needed for the respiration reaction, so you know as I said it's very  well suited, so therefore it contains these enzymes within its matrix and then  it has its own DNA and it has its own ribosomes and it proposes a new theory  which we will take a look at in just a second. Now just before we move on to the  theory, just a small piece of information and I guess a summary.  Mitochondria produces ATP. ATP stands for adenosine triphosphate and is  importantly known as a universal energy carrier and as I mentioned earlier the  folding of the cristae increases surface area and therefore increases efficiency.  And here is just a diagram I guess of a summary of the respiration reaction, so  the series of steps, but you don't need to worry about that at this level. So  let's go ahead and check out the theory. Now I keep mentioning this theory, so  let's actually take a look at what this theory is. This is known as the endosymbiont  theory. Now endo meaning inside and symbiont actually is a long definition.  It is an organism which lives inside another organism for mutual benefits. Now  in the 1960s, the scientists actually discovered that the mitochondrion was  not an organelle, it was actually an independent bacteria. Now why do they  believe this? It's because it has these things such as DNA, ribosomes and  granules and these things were used to sustain these organelles. I mean  these tiny things I guess are mini organelles for this mitochondrion is  what helped it sustain independently before it was adopted and integrated  into our human cells. Now the ribosome is smaller than the our ribosome, so the  ribosome size inside the mitochondrion is 70s whereas the ribosomes which are  lying free in the animal cell and in the RER are size 80s. So this is what  led scientists to believe that the mitochondrion were actually independent  before they were colonized by us. 