 Easy, James here, and in this video I'm going to show you how to get a little bit more professional  sounding recordings of your mixing.  Now I've been browsing through YouTube lately and I've come across loads of mix videos and  they've been really good, like the mixing's been top notch, but the only trouble is the  sound quality in the actual mix, the actual video, has not been very good.  It's been either a bit quiet or it's a bit loud at points and it starts clipping and  distorting.  So it's not done the mix justice really, because the mix is really good, but if the sound quality  is a bit crap, people aren't going to enjoy it as much.  So I'll just show you how you can make it sound a little bit better.  Now the thing is, normally, like back in the day we used to have mix tapes, right?  We used to have to record our mixes onto cassette tapes, send them out to nightclubs and promoters  to get noticed.  Then sort of late 90s onto about 2004, people started using mini-discs and mini-discs were  like the way forward.  Everyone was like, yeah, send out mini-discs.  That's kind of redundant now though, because everyone just uses the internet.  People just upload it and if you were a promoter looking for new talent, you'd just trawl through  the internet.  You'd find somebody within 10 minutes, because it's so easy to upload it now and make it  accessible to everyone.  Now the thing is, to get a decent recording, a lot of people say, oh you need to get a  Mac, you need wicked software, you need a decent sound card.  You don't need any of that shit.  All you need is a decent computer or laptop, everyone's got one of them nowadays, and a  free bit of software.  You ain't even got to pay a penny, all right?  So the free software we're going to use is called Audacity.  I showed you how to download it in another video, I'll put it as a link below, and I'll  show you how you can use that and it's seriously easy, all right, and you don't need to spend  any money.  I'll show you now how to do it, but I'm going to have to go to screen capture on the computer.  And I'll show you exactly what to do.  I finally got some screen capture software, yay!  Anyway, over to the computer.  Right now, again, we're not going to have to pay for anything to do this.  Everything we're going to use for this is free, the software we're going to use.  So if you need to know how to get Audacity, then there's a link below in the video description,  which will take you to another video where I'll show you how to download it and install  it.  It's really easy, takes about two minutes.  So if you've already got it, then launch Audacity, if not, you need to download it and launch  it.  Okay, so first thing you want to do, if you haven't already, is go to View, and you want  to go to Float Meter Toolbar, and bring it down here, because it's no good all being  up there all small, you can't really see it.  And what you want to do is you want to shrink it down and lengthen it out a little bit.  Shrink it down and lengthen it, I didn't sound right.  All right, narrow it down and widen it a bit.  Okay, neither of them sounded right, but I'm going to go with the first one.  Then what you want to do is, here, round here, you want to click on the little microphone,  and that's going to start monitoring the input.  So at the moment, it's monitoring whatever input's coming into this sound card, which  is my voice, this microphone.  Now what you want to do is, when you're recording your mix, you want to make sure you leave  yourself plenty of headroom, okay, when I say headroom, make sure that there's plenty  of space between where the level meter is peaking and the top of the scale, which is  usually zero dB.  So once you've made sure it's not too loud, don't be scared to keep it down near about  minus 15, minus 12.  It's easier to louden it up and make it louder than it is to get rid of clipping, because  once it's clipped, it's destroyed the file, you can't get rid of it.  So yeah, basically make sure that, you know, you haven't got it too loud.  So because my voice isn't going to be particularly interesting to work with, what we're going  to do is, I recorded a quick two-track mix earlier before doing this video, so I'll just  drag that into Audacity now, and basically when it loads, you'll see what I mean.  Now this just sort of reinforces my point a little bit about keeping it down, because  imagine if that there was already, you know, sort of nearer to zero dB, that's probably  going to start clipping there, you can see where the mix is, it's a little bit louder  than the rest of it.  So what we're going to do is, we're going to make all of this one consistent level,  and we're going to make it so that we can increase the gain and get it to a nice professional  sounding level.  So first of all what we want to do is, we want to get to a quieter part here, the quietest  part, and we want to play it and get a reading of the, off the level meter, how loud it is,  what it's peaking at.  Alright, that's peaking around minus 8 dB, so I'm going to go with that, we're going  to say minus 8 dB, so what we're going to do is, when you've got how loud yours is,  click beside the track here to select the whole track, or just press Control A, whichever  one's easier for you, and then we'll go to effects and we'll select hard limiter.  Now you really need to be careful with these things, you take them too far, you can really  destroy the track.  So what we want to do is, I'm going to type in what I, in the, where it says dB limit  here, I'm going to do minus 8 dB, you type in whatever yours was at, the quietest point.  Okay so when you click okay, what you'll see happening is it's going to actually just flatten  off the wave and make it all one consistent level, but it's only going to do it to the  quietest part.  Okay so there you go, you can see what it's done there, it's made it all one consistent  level and it hasn't taken too much headroom off, it hasn't damaged the dynamics too much,  that's all good.  So the next thing to do is just play the track in the loudest part, which was the mix, and  just make sure it doesn't sound scratchy, distorted, or just generally rubbish.  Okay that sounds fine.  Now the only problem now is it's really quiet, okay.  Now what we can do is now we've actually hard limited and we've taken off of those peaks,  what we can now do is we can now make it to a professional level, so let's go to select  the whole track, I'm going to go to effects and I'm going to click on amplify.  Now what we want to do is we want to set it to minus 0.1 dB, so it's just shy of 0 dB,  that way you can guarantee that there's going to be no clips, no digital overs, no nothing  like that.  So when you upload it it's not going to start making that horrible clipping sound.  When you render this to mp3 it may bring it down to minus 1 dB, but anyway we'll just  make sure that it's good to start with.  So here we go, so when you click on this you'll see quite a dramatic change actually when  it's done this, and it should bring it up to a nice, there we go, a nice professional  clean level.  So now if you play this at the loudest point it shouldn't sound distorted clips and we  shouldn't have red lines appearing here to say that it's clipping.  Just check other parts.  Excellent it's loud, but it's not too loud.  So that's all good, so now you've done that, you can now go file, you want to export as  an mp3 and name your file and save it somewhere, preferably not on your desktop.  But also make sure if you're using it for video editing or anything like that or burning  it onto a CD, save it as a WAV, just preserve the quality, sorry, and don't go to mp3 if  you really don't need to.  Obviously if you're lacking hard drive space or whatever, yeah fine, mp3.  If not, go for WAV, it's better quality.  So there you go, and you can make other changes to it as well, let's say a bit of EQing.  Say your sound cards might be a little bit more bassier than mine, so it might have recorded  with a bit too much bass, knock the bass down a little bit, do a bit of EQing.  Audacity is really easy to use, so just play around with some of the effects, just see  what sounds good.  Because at the end of the day people are going to be listening to this and you're a person  like other people, so think what you think sounds good.  Just listen to it and think, well I don't know, it sounds a bit tinny, knock the treble  down a bit.  Just go with it, and you know, the more time you put into it, the better it will sound  at the end of the day.  And then you'll have a mix that isn't too loud, it's like clipping and distorting and  sounding like it's played for a guitar amp, and it's not, you know, quiet and sort of  could be a little bit louder and people haven't got to turn their system right up just to  hear it.  Got a good happy medium, good crisp volume, and it sounds great.  So there you go, I hope this video's been a help.  If you've got any questions or anything, bung a comment below, and feel free, if you've  used this technique to make a mix video and you've uploaded it onto YouTube, feel free  to bung them as a video response below as well, because I'd like to hear them.  So there you go, I hope this video's been a help, thank you for watching, nice one. 