 So today we've got something really  No, this isn't gonna work for today. Hold on. So I'm coming to you today  Not from the usual studio, obviously  But from a freezing cold beach in West Seattle because we're talking about Team Seas today  We're talking about saving beaches oceans and rivers and it's October and it's Seattle. So it's absolutely freezing out here  Normally in a video I'd have to take some time out to talk to you about CuriosityStream and Nebula  But today they've graciously donated their sponsored time so that we can talk about Team Seas and saving the ocean  The people behind Team Seas are Mark Rober and Mr. Beast. If you remember back in 2019, they launched Team Trees  They tried to raise 20 million dollars to plant 20 million trees  They wound up absolutely smashing that goal with 23 million  Even two years later Team Trees is still receiving donations and still planting trees all over the world  So we're back today talking about pulling trash out of the oceans rivers and beaches and we're trying to raise 30 million dollars  The two nonprofits behind this are the Ocean Conservancy and the Ocean Cleanup. They're gonna split a hundred percent of the proceeds  50-50 so the mission here is to remove  85 football fields worth of trash piled a foot high. Here's how we're gonna do it for the beaches  We'll look to Ocean Conservancy's International Coastal Cleanup or ICC Network is the largest beach cleanup network in the world  They've removed over 340 million pounds of trash so far in its 35 year history  Ocean Conservancy's global ghost gear initiative will go out looking for lost abandoned and discarded fishing gear or ghost gear  It's some of the deadliest ocean trash and it's really tough to recover and for the rivers Team Seas will fund ocean cleanups  Interceptors these are cutting-edge river cleanup technologies that collect trash before it can reach the ocean ocean cleanups  Interceptors take care of trash and plastic flowing from 1% of the rivers that contribute to 80% of the trash  Flowing into the ocean. This is something that's very near and dear to my heart for two reasons number one  Mr. Beast has always really inspired me to be able to use my platform to impact the world in some way aside from just talking  To you about keyboards number two. I visited Seattle in the summer of 2019  I'm from the Midwest Kansas City, and it's a great city  But it wouldn't be a stretch to say that nothing really ever happens there when you talk about stuff like climate change and ecology concerns  It's not really top of mind out there coming out here in the summer of 2019  I was blown away that when you like turned on the news you heard about  Orcas and wildlife and climate change and everything else and it really impacted me in such a way that I went back to Kansas City  And we made plans to move here a year later  And we did exactly that our oceans rivers and beaches are already full of plastic trash  There's an estimated 200 million tons in circulation in marine environments 30 million dollars is an absolutely insane goal  So today you're gonna see a bunch of videos going up from a bunch of different  Youtubers talking about this very same message and we're all gonna work together to try to make this happen if you're able to help support  This thing or you just want to learn more click the link down in the description  Every dollar helps and I'm personally gonna get things kicked off with a $500 donation. We are gonna donate $500  I'm gonna get out of here and back to the comfort of my studio because it is absolutely freezing  I will catch you guys in the next one. Stay up  You 