 Yo, what's going on Surfer Squad? Tanner here. I'm out in my front yard enjoying some nice  weather on my rocking chair, which is one of my favorite things, honestly. It's a pretty  nice activity. I just sit back here, enjoy the pond, the sounds of the water, look at  all the wildlife and stuff that we have around here. It's pretty awesome, but I got a new  piece of tech right now. It's a DJI Osmo 3. It's just a little gimbal for my phone, which  I got so that way when I go on trips, if I'm flying somewhere, go to a different place  or whatever, I'll take all of my normal gear, so my gimbal, my DSLR and that stuff, but  this will make it easier for me to film more things. So the gimbal folds up into a small  little package, which means I can pretty much take it anywhere. And I always have my phone  on me, so it'll just make things easy because I can just pop my phone on it. Good to go.  And my phone takes pretty decent video. Of course, if this ends up being a pretty good  thing for me to do, then maybe I'll just get a better phone that has a better camera on  it moving forward. But what I wanted to film in this one is just kind of like a tour of  my yard and show you guys all of my plants. Now, I don't know what every single thing  is, so I'll put all of the names up on screen, but most of them I do. And I think it's something  that I haven't really shared with you on the main channel simply because it's something  I don't think, I don't think it's something that I would do too well. I was laughing because  Wellington, he's up here croaking. He's been going all day. But yeah, I think it'd be a  pretty cool thing to film, so I guess enough of intro. Let's get to looking. All right,  so whenever you first come up here, we've got all this landscaping over here. I've added  some of the plants over here, but most of them were here when we moved in. And I'll  do my best to tell you all the names, but as I said, I don't know them all. And I'm  more of a tropical plant guy, so I'm learning. But up front here, we've got all of this huge  dianthus. It's really cool. Got to love some flowers. I'm probably going to trim some of  this back. It's looking a little rough over there, so clean it up a little bit. Got some  Irish moss right here. It's got these nice little white flowers on it. Always got to  love it. My hope is to get it really, you know, filling in over here, filling in a lot  of this space. We've got some mother of thyme. Got to love those little pink flowers. And  again, I love these creeping plants, you know, just really fill in all of this rock and just  add some nice texture down there. We've also got a salvia here, which I don't know if it's  a type of sage or if sage is related to salvia. I believe it's sage is related to salvia,  but similar type of plant. It's got these awesome flowers on it that stay for most of  the season, and it attracts a lot of pollinators, which is awesome. Come down here. We've got  a yarrow. It doesn't have the flowers on it right now, but they'll pop up pretty tall,  about a foot and a half, and it's like a cluster of a bunch of small flowers. And what was  cool was after my wife and I bought this house, this one, I believe, was in bloom, and it  had those clusters of flowers on it, and there was one that was shaped like a heart, so it  was pretty cool because, you know, we just bought the house. I forget what this one's  called. It's like a spike flower or something like that. It's pretty cool. This one has  purple flowers on it, and then these two up here have white flowers, but it's just like  a tall sort of clustered flower, which looks pretty cool. I'm not sure what this bush is,  but it gets these little, yeah, see, right there, all these little white flowers on it,  which look pretty cool. Gotta love it. I believe this one's called like a peacock plant, something  like that, but it's just like a little red bush, and it gets these really nice pink flowers  on it. Gotta love it. My wife's plant, actually, she wanted that, so that was one we added.  This is a black-eyed susan. We've got, I mean, they're all over the place. I've split the  plants up a lot, and if you see, like, they send out these little runners like this, so  it's a pretty prolific plant, but it looks really nice once the flowers pop up. They  kind of look like a mini sunflower, but they're a little more saturated on the orange side.  This is a lily, big orange, big orange lilies once it blooms. Pretty standard, and we've  got a lavender down here. That's probably my wife's favorite, so we have lavenders all  over the place, and you gotta love how they smell, so can't go wrong with that. Of course,  the neighbor's cutting the grass. Hopefully, you guys don't hear it all that much, but  anyway, moving over into the pond area. I mean, we're still pretty early in the season,  but all of the plants, I mean, they're looking real good. I just got this one the other day.  My mom bought it for my wife and I for our anniversary. I believe it's a type of begonia.  Nice little yellow flowers. Got some red hens and chicks. We didn't add those. They were  here when we moved in, and I was pretty surprised by this. So, we planted mums in the fall,  and this is one of them that came back. I guess they can be perennial if the conditions  are right, so planted that last year. It's coming back strong, and we had one right here  too, but it started coming back in the beginning of the season, but it just didn't last, so  high hopes for that one that it stays. We've got this little pine tree. I forget what it's  called, but that's where MJ is. I got the little frog under here, and it's doing really  well. I was kind of nervous about it at first because it had a lot of the needles falling  off. I don't know if it was just the time of the year or if a little bit of acclimation  would die off and that sort of thing, but it's looking really good. It's growing a little  bit. Glad to add it to the lineup here. I don't know. I think this one's like a bubble  flower or something like that, a Chinese bubble flower maybe. It gets these cool white bubble  looking flower on it, which look pretty cool. I just added these two. I can't remember what  they're called either, unfortunately. I told you guys, I don't know everything, but this  is a salvia as well. I tried to add those in as many places as I could. Like I said,  got to really help out those pollinators, get them to have places around here, so it's  pretty cool. It's giant, enormous lavender. I love it because it really naturalizes the  pond, kind of hides some of that hardware, and it's spilling on over into everything  which softens that edge. We've got a lily here, and I planted some of these marigolds.  They're the yellow ones, so some of the yellow ones are bloomed, but that's a little marigold  right there. Got some sedum. I believe this one is red hot Rio, if I remember correctly,  or party carnival. I can't remember. We have both of them. We got them from my wife's mom.  Just some little grasses here. Another lily. Got some ivy, and then down in the pond we  have lilies, of course. Can't have a pond without lilies, am I right? We've got an iris  here. I really like this one because it's small, and I'm assuming you don't really see  it right away. We got some pickerel in here. I think some of these are variegated iris,  and then other ones are cattails. I know the cattails can get a little bit prolific, but  shouldn't be an issue. I'll keep them in check. You have more cattails here. We've got bloody  dock, and some more irises down here, which is pretty cool. Here, I'm going to cut this  footage real quick just to make sure you guys can hear what I'm saying. Anyway, all throughout  the water area I've got parrot's feather, so I got it down in here, and then I also  have it up in the waterfalls, which is awesome. We'll go up there in just a second. Down in  here, got a few of my favorite plants. I really love this, the horse kale, the acquisitum.  Such a cool sort of prehistoric look to it. Always loved it. We've got a nice patch of  hypnomoss down there. How sick is that? It's just covering that whole rock. Gotta love  it. Yeah, that's pretty much all the plants down in here. But if we come back over in  here, got some, I believe that's a begonia. Nice red begonia. The lambs ear. Man, this  is one of my favorite plants growing up. You just touch it, it feels so soft. My parents  had it at their house when we were growing up. We got some phlox. I can't remember what  this one is, but I believe this one is called forest phlox. They're nice little flowers.  They actually, I don't know if these two specifically are native to this area, but we do have phlox  that grow native in the woods, which is pretty cool. Oh, this one. I like this one. It's  an ornamental garlic. So, I don't know if you could eat it, but it gets these nice little  flowers on it. I can't remember specifically what this one is, but it gets these cool yellow  flowers on it. They almost kind of look like sunflowers as well, but they're obviously  a lot smaller. These two, unfortunately I can't remember what they are. They're related  to this lambs ear plant, so they have similar flowers on them, but they get these tall sort  of purple flowers on them. We've got a lot of purples around here now that I think about  it, but I think it's a nice looking color since it's not, you know what I mean, you  don't really see it in nature all that much. Another lavender. Some of those marigolds.  Another lily coming up here. It's another one of those things like a spike flower, something  like that. Co-variegated grass. It's nice because when I take you around back, you'll  see it kind of creates a barrier from the street. Oh, just what I love to see. Little  bumblebee doing his thing. I always like bumblebees, and I don't know if you guys have ever seen  one of those. I don't know what this one is either. It's just some hanging baskets  I bought a couple weeks ago. Little bit of, man, what the heck is that called? I can't  remember. It's slipping my mind at the moment, but that was one of our plants for the bouquet  in our wedding, you know, the flowers that she had. I don't know what the heck that thing  is either. It looks similar, but I have another yarrow. This is a pink one, if I remember  correctly. Oh, here. This one's in bloom. This is one of those salvias I was telling  you about, and got another bumblebee on it. So, that way you know I'm not lying, it does  attract pollinators. There was a lot of honeybees all over it yesterday, actually. While we're  talking about that, I've got these butterfly bushes. They attract so much, and they get  really big, which is cool. Last summer, it was so funny because like when we're cutting  the grass or you walk past or whatever, if you bump into the bush, just like hundreds  of things just fly off of it. So, butterflies, bees. There was also some hummingbirds and  stuff too, which is really cool. You can't have a feature without some ferns, am I right?  These are rattlesnake ferns that we pulled from under the deck out back. So, you know,  we brought those out here, and a beautiful iris. I think it's a sweet iris, if I remember  correctly. You've got to love it. I'm going to be all over the place, totally scatterbrained  with this because I see one thing and it attracts my attention, and I move over here and move  over here. And that was really, you know, the whole goal of this. Here, let me take  you on a little adventure, right? You know, we come around the side, and there's so much  to look at, you know. And for me, at least, you know, I like to explore when I'm out in  nature and stuff, so I like to come up and actually sort of, you know, walk through all  of this and enjoy all of the different areas that I created. I've got some pennywort, which  is cool. That actually, I didn't add this. It came in with some pond plants that I brought  in. More of that parrot's feather. I don't know if this, I guess this is coming up from  these pitcher plants here, but I got those from Rachel O'Leary. She sent them over to  me. Pretty cool. We've got some, my apologies, but it's slipping my mind at the moment. I'm  all over the place right now. It's some sort of flag, a borzuki, I'm telling you. It's  the name, something like that. Anyway, get a better look at that bloody dog from here.  You could actually eat that. Put it in a little salad. It's not bad. Slightly bitter, but  it's not bad. Got moss all over all of this. Creeping Jenny. It's a little yellow right  now, but as the season goes on, it will definitely get greener. Another bloody dog. And moss.  Can't have enough moss, right? All over here. And I believe this is a rough rush. It's just  like a grassy type of thing. It's cool because it's evergreen, which is nice. We've got some  more begonias over in here. I got, those are actually new. Those are last year boxwoods.  Those, I don't know if I'm going to keep them up here. I'll probably move them elsewhere.  They don't really do too well, to be honest, but I'm kind of going for, I guess you would  call it a cottage garden where there's literally just, you know, hardly any mulch. All plants.  Definitely far from that, but we love to fill it in and get all these plants. I don't know  some kind of bush here. I can't remember what that's called, but it has some pink flowers  on it, which is cool. This is a lucifer flower, I believe. Gets these awesome red flowers  on it, which look really nice. These are some type of lily. I don't know what type, but  when they pop up, they're yellow with like an orange interior. Really nice looking, but  they don't last too long, unfortunately. Just had our tulips. Unfortunately, they're  not in bloom anymore, but you'll have that. Then I got these zebra grasses. They'll get  like seven feet tall, but the idea is whenever you're sitting here on the rocking chair right,  you know, they're way high up. Then same here, you know, so they'll come up past here and  they just kind of block us in from the street, which is pretty nice. I can't remember what  this one's called, but nice little delicate pink flowers on it, and we have another one  of those back here, these red ones, and hostas. Gotta have hostas, right? They'll fill in  a lot of the space, and I can't remember what this one is either, but it's got these cool  red spots on the leaves, and it gets these cool pink flowers on it. Nice begonia, and  this thing is huge. I'll tell you what was crazy about this one was when we moved in,  it was right, it was somewhere over here. It was in a weird spot, and it was like the  same size as these Japanese painted ferns. Real small, and it just wasn't doing its thing,  and then when we got the pond and I moved it over here, and it just exploded, and it's  a really cool plant. I guess that it likes to have a lot of light in the position that  it was in previously, it just didn't get enough. Check this out. This begonia is just  about ready to be blooming. I always like these plants where the actual leaves are close  to the ground, and it pops up these little flowers like that. A lot of the wild orchids  around here are like that. Unfortunately, this isn't in bloom, but it's our boxwood  tree, and it's like just about to be, you know. It's just covered with these white flowers.  Looks absolutely beautiful. Sort of framing in the pond. Got these nice orange flowers.  Another one. I can't remember what it is. Sorry guys, but these plants around here are  not my forte at the moment. We'll get there though. We'll get there though. Part of the  thing with the other videos is, or the other plants that I know about, I've shown them  so many times in videos and stuff, and I have to say them so it helps me to learn, but in  this case, I haven't got to that point yet, so I don't know what everything is. Anyway,  giant hostas over here. How sick is that? Most people probably split them by this point,  but I like how big they are. I do, however, got to trim in a little bit of here so these  rhododendrons have some more room. Unfortunately, we just missed the bloom on them because they  were, you know, a couple weeks ago. They weren't in full bloom, and beautiful. Absolutely beautiful  looking. The one out back though is in bloom. Another hosta. This is a redbud. American  redbud, I think. It gets some beautiful flowers on it as well. Lavender, catnip. Another cedar.  Salvia. Yeah, so a lot of the same there. Another one. Can't recall at the moment, but  it's pretty cool. It dies back, like, you know, completely, and then it regrows these  vines every year, so just get it going around, and so by the end of the season, it's completely,  this whole arch here is just covered by it, and I think it gets blue flowers. I've never  seen it bloom, but I'm fairly certain that it gets blue flowers, which is cool. And here,  this is one of my favorite weeds. It's these creeping charlies. I have a lot of them out  back. Get these cool little flowers on them. Got to love them. And then I got all these  trees on the side here. These are some riverside birch. Beautiful looking tree, especially  when you get all this, that paper bark type of feel on it. Really cool. And I'm just getting,  you know, planting those trees over here to kind of block out the neighbors a little bit,  just to make it a little bit more reclusive. Back here, under the deck here, this is one  of my go-to spots for moss. There's a lot of badge moss. So you see, this is all badge  moss under here. There's a little bit of liverwort, too, and a lot of sword ferns. This is actually  where all those sword ferns in the front yard, we pulled them all from under here, and they  took to the front pretty well. Now, moving back to the pond here, this is, I did all  of this. None of this was here when we moved in. And those of you who saw that video know,  again, going for that sort of cottage garden vibe, just completely stuffed with plants.  And here, you can get a better look here, how nice that creeping charlie is if you let  it do its thing. And if you pull it out and just don't let it get too out of hand, it  really does accent all of the other plants well, but it can go wild and be a problem.  Morsalvia. Morsalvia. Honestly, that's probably the plant that we have the most of. Again,  it just has beautiful flowers, and it's really beneficial to all the wildlife around here.  And really just trying to help the bees out and stuff like that. Anyway, slipping my mind  at the moment, that thing. Several lilies, all orange. And then this is a Japanese iris.  I can't remember when it blooms, but it probably is one of my favorite irises that I got around  here. Just these beautiful purple and white flowers. Gotta love it. And then this is definitely  one of my favorites. I'm sure some people will hate that I have this, but it's a burdock.  If you look, these leaves are giant. Absolutely massive. The thing could get up to nine feet  tall. And I just use this because it's kind of like, oh, got nuts there. Sorry about that.  It could get up to nine feet tall, and I just use them because they're a biannual, so they  don't really come back every year. But I planted a few around here, so if one's not there,  the other one, in theory, should be. But I planted these so they come back year after  year and I don't have to go out and buy a tropical plant or whatever. Got my goldfish  back here. Still doing good. And all kinds of plants in here. I've got some variegated  cat tails. Oh, we've got the rare orange. I'm just joking. I don't know what he's got.  I don't know what he was doing in there. I like to hang out in the shallows sometimes.  A lot of Louisiana iris right in here. I got all that from Rachel O'Leary, actually. Some  rush. More hostas. Can't have enough of them. Oh, yeah. Check out these irises. I'll tell  you guys about that in a second after we get a good look at them here. Absolutely beautiful.  I typically like the ones that are more of a solid color, but man, what an incredible  looking plant. And then, yeah, we've got the pink ones over here. So they're the same kind,  just different leaves. And the crazy thing about these irises, right, they're not a cheap  plant. I think they'll run you about $30 for a gallon pot of them. But you know me, I'm  a cheapskate. And they're not the only plants I did it with. Honestly, most of the plants  in this pond, I bought them on clearance. So what you do is, right after the blooming  season, right, go to your local Home Depot, Lowe's, that sort of thing, and you find these  plants. They won't have the flowers on them anymore, which means they're undesirable.  People don't want to buy them. So you could get these things, gallon plant, for like $3.  So this is, there's one planted among that burdock, too. So I think this is two plants,  and this is three, so we'll say four total. So it was less than $20 to get like five plants,  whereas typically it's like $30 for a plant. So just, if you shop around smartly, you can  get this stuff for cheap and just build it up over time. And honestly, that's how I do  all this stuff. Got some mint here. You just rub it around a little bit. Smell your hands,  man. It smells absolutely incredible. More of this creeping jenny back here. Got it all  around there, and let me come back here. More plants and stuff. And this is, I don't know,  a tree itself. Got another birch just arching over. And my idea back here was, I haven't  done it yet, and I'm not sure if we'll do it until whenever we redo the pond, but it's  like a little, just like a hidden area back here, right? So you got all these plants,  and if you had a little seat right here, you got this tree above you shading you. You got  all these plants and stuff. So honestly, like I picture like a flagstone sort of patio,  just a few, not too crazy, just a few of them back here, and a nice little like swinging  chair or something like that to give you that little seclusion if you want to get away from  everybody. Gotta love it. More of these grasses. This is a zebra grass. Now the cool thing,  cool thing about this one was, so whenever we moved in and stuff, I had an issue where  some of the goldfish died because it got too cold outside, whatever. It, not, whatever,  if you go back and watch my videos, you'll see what I'm saying, but it was an issue with  those goldfish. They passed away and I built this pond specifically for those goldfish.  So what I did was, I planted them under this, and I'll tell you what, this thing went nuts  the year after. And it's cool because it's like a part of them is always with the pond  that they were supposed to live in. So I like it. Another variegated iris here. Another  beautiful looking flower, similar to that one out front, but I really like it. Here's  some rhododendron. Beautiful little flower on it. I like, I would like to get more of  these. And I, you know, I picture this getting huge obviously, cause they could get massive.  But again, adding to that mystery that I was saying, you know, nice little secluded  area back here. So that really covers it. And I planted all these larger plants around  here to cover the filter box and stuff like that. So I got these pompous grass. I think  they can get like 12 feet tall, which is absolutely crazy. More lilies. I can't remember what  this one is, but it has all these little yellow flowers on it. I like it. It looks pretty  cool. And some sedum. More sedum here. And I really like how this looks. Some string  algae growing off of that waterfall here. I thought it made a cool, cool little look.  And you know, this is what you often don't get to see in my videos or whatever. I can  just, literally just hang out here. Sit in my yard. Enjoy all this nature. And we got  a pretty, pretty quiet spot down here, which is nice. I mean, we're in the middle of a  neighborhood. So it's not like we're in the woods, but relatively little riff raff around  these parts. And honestly, you know, I don't have the most natural looking pond or whatever.  I built it for like a thousand bucks. So if you thought it was like some expensive build,  it really wasn't. And it's not the best thing in the world, but you know, a little bit of  plants could just bring it to life and create your own little natural oasis. Last thing  probably really worth talking about is down here. It's my wildflower planter. Now there's  some weeds. So you got this thing, I'll probably chop it out. But like I said, hog, hog weed  or something like that. It's not the one that can cause your skin to have sunburn or whatever.  But yeah, these are all various wildflowers. I just, I planted the seeds the first year  and then they keep coming back. So it's cool helping out those pollinators again, like  I was saying, but while we're talking about that, there's a plant up here that I totally  forgot about, which is milkweed. So I've got a few of them right here. There's three of  them there and I've got a ton of them. I don't know if, yeah, you could see some right there,  but I have a lot of them behind the fence and right here as I showed, which is cool  attract those monarchs and everything. And whenever they come, man, it's a beautiful  site. They're an awesome butterfly, but we're still fairly early in the season. So not all  that stuff has come yet. It's awesome though, because you get so much wildlife around here.  Frogs living back here. My goldfish, obviously butterflies, bees got to love it. So that  is the backyard pond, my little oasis. And if we, Oh, sorry, mama. It's one of the robins.  They make nests up in here and then they fly out and almost hit you in the face. I don't  mind though. They need a place to do it. So whatever. But yeah, I mean back, back here,  you got to love it. And so that the goal is we got the, the aquascape ecosystem pond  out here. We're going to make something like this in the backyard, but it'll probably be  like one and a half to two times the size of the one that's currently back there. And  we'll do a, you know, essentially the same type of feel. All these just crazy plants  make little pockets of seclusion to hang out and enjoy, but a little quick raw video for  you guys. Hopefully you enjoyed it. I know it was all over the place and didn't know  what I was talking about half the time, but whatever. You got to do what you got to do.  So that's what I do. I get on my rocking chair here, stick my feet up and just rock away  and enjoy all of this. Gotta love it guys. Gotta love it. And that's what I have for  you guys in this one. Hopefully you enjoyed it. As I said, I know it was all over the  place and whatnot, but hopefully you got to appreciate a little bit of what I get to see  from a day to day just around all these plants and stuff. It's actually fairly easy to take  care of a minimal weeding and that type of thing, especially when you have a lot of plants,  it really helps out with that. But I got to get back to work for some stuff on the main  channel. Hope you guys enjoyed this one. Take care and peace. 