 I'm Dr Brenda Parker and I'm the admissions tutor for the Department of Biochemical Engineering.  So biochemical engineering is a degree that enables you to undertake an interdisciplinary  training gaining a knowledge of not only the fundamentals of engineering science but also  biochemistry and molecular biology. One of the questions we get asked quite a lot is  what is the difference between chemical and biochemical engineering? Let's start with  the similarities. So in terms of the fundamentals you will still learn the same thermodynamics,  fluid flow, the kind of mechanical processes that you need to be an engineer. Where biochemical  engineering differs is that we also teach molecular biology and biochemistry in a really  integrated way. The difference is that we bring in a biological process into engineering  and this opens up many possibilities for stem cell work, synthetic biology, vaccines and  pharmaceuticals. The way that we structure the course we draw all of this information  together until your third year where you'll do a big design project where you'll look  at how we manufacture a pharmaceutical compound for example and you'll take that process from  the very inception discovery stage right through clinical trials and to manufacturing.  One of the key features of our degree is that we try to offer our undergraduates as much  practical and hands on experience as possible. To facilitate that we have a pilot facility  downstairs with fermentation up to about 150 litres and all of the different unit operations  so you will see from beginning to end how a biological manufacturing process works and  you'll get hands on time actually seeing the equipment in operation and understanding  how it works in the lab. To complement this we also have enormous links with industry,  pharmaceutical industry and other bioprocess industries and during the course of your degree  you will have a site visit where you'll be able to see how all of the concepts that you're  learning in your undergraduate degree are applied to real life. The kinds of students  we're looking for are people who really want to be leaders in their field, who've got a  passion for the life sciences but really want to see that applied into meaningful products  and solutions. So perhaps you're studying A level biology but you enjoy physics and mathematics  and you don't want to give that side of your studies up, biochemical engineering will be  a great way for you to integrate all of those facets of your A level so far. Or perhaps  you were considering a chemical engineering route but you are attracted by an emerging  industry such as biotechnology, you don't need to have biology to study biochemical  engineering, we will teach all of the concepts that you need to know here. Once they finish  our students go on to a number of different career paths, this might be within the pharmaceutical  industry looking at process development or research and development. Many of our graduates  go on to further study and PhDs which reflects the fact that our field is quite new and  emerging and as a department we're quite research intensive so many people feel inspired  to go on to study a PhD. Finally because obviously you're an engineer, you're numerate, articulate,  you're in demand from a number of other industries such as the financial sector. Because we have  a really good insight into the pharmaceutical industry a number of people go on also to  look at consultancy roles where an insight and an understanding of how drugs are manufactured  is really important. So if you're the kind of student who's motivated by the challenges  of making biofuels, new vaccines, engineering stem cells, you're exactly the kind of person  that we want to hear from and if you've any questions please drop us a line and we'd be  more than happy to see you at some of our open days. 