 Welcome to our real estate class. Now the purpose of these audio files really is  to give you a supplement to your real estate education. My name is Karthik  Subramaniam and I have been teaching these real estate classes now for over  15 years. I've taught thousands of students the basics of real estate and  I'm very confident that I can help you in this journey of getting your real  estate license. You'll see the term caveat emptor here at the middle of page  number two and right next to caveat emptor I'd write the words let the buyer  beware. So maybe you've heard of that before caveat emptor basically what this  means is I'll give you an example let's say you bought a used car off Craigslist  you have to be careful to make sure that you're not going to get screwed right  because maybe the air conditioning doesn't work and the seller tries to  meet you on a cold winter night so you're less likely to try on the air  conditioning. Maybe the sunroof sticks and the seller kind of tries to draw  your attention away from the sunroof. So a lot of things in life you do have to  be careful before you buy something. I just was talking to a friend of mine who  recently got engaged and he showed me a picture of the ring that he got for his  wife and I said well that's a that's a beautiful ring. He goes yeah you know I  only paid 2,500 bucks for it. I said 2,500 bucks that's that sounds pretty  cheap for a diamond. He goes yeah I got it on Craigslist. I said you got your  wife's wedding ring on Craigslist you're a pretty gutsy man. So the truth is is  that if you buy a used diamond off Craigslist you have to be careful just  so that you don't get screwed. But interestingly right next to caveat  emptor I would write the words no longer applies. This concept of caveat  emptor no longer applies in the sale of real estate. I'll give you an example of  this. If you buy my house and let's say the roof leaks I have to tell you that  the roof leaks. If I don't you could sue me and I would probably lose because I  have to disclose a leaky roof as a seller to the buyer. If you buy my house  and the foundations messed up or there's even like a loud neighbor next door I  have to disclose those things because it could affect ultimately your decision to  buy that home. So caveat emptor while it's true this is kind of the precept in  a lot of business transactions. It's definitely not the case particularly in  residential real estate because the seller has to disclose everything that  that seller knows is wrong with the property. So caveat emptor no longer  applies. And really where this comes from at the bottom of page number two is the  business and professions code. And you'll see that term business and professions  code in bold at the bottom of page number two. So the business and  professions code is where all real estate law can be found. So all of our  real estate laws are found in this set of rules called the business and  professions code. So later on in this chapter we'll look at all the things  that you absolutely cannot do with a real estate license in California. I'll  give you an example. Anytime you run an ad as a real estate agent in the ad you  have to have your license number in the ad. If you don't you violated the  business and professions code. Every time you take money from a client you have to  put that client money in a totally separate account called a trust account.  If you commingle it with your own money you violated the business and  professions code. So again all of our real estate laws can be found in this  set of rules called the business and professions code here at the very bottom  of page number two. Now at the top of page three I would look at the term  Bureau of Real Estate at the very top of page number three. So the Bureau of Real  Estate is the regulatory body that issues all of our real estate licenses.  Now how many people do you think have a real estate license in California? Well  there are a lot of people that have a real estate license in California and  mainly because it's so easy to get. You take my class suffer for nine weeks  here's some bad jokes and all of a sudden nine weeks later you're a real  estate agent. So you have a lot of people that kind of try out for the business of  potentially selling real estate. Now today there's over 400,000 real estate  licensees in California. That's a lot of people. Now actually if you go back to  2007 at the height of the last market there was over 500,000 real estate  licensees just in California alone. Now a lot of people hear that statistic and  say man if everybody and their mom already has a real estate license it's  funny because I did this class yesterday in San Diego literally there was someone  and her mom in the front row getting their real estate licenses together  which is fine but if everyone and their mom already has this license how am I  supposed to make any money if there's already so many real estate agents out  there? Well the answer to that really lies in the fact that you've heard of  the 80-20 rule right where 80% of the business is done by 20% of the people.  This is probably closer to like the 90-10 rule. This is where like 90% of the  business is done by 10% of the agents. So there's always an entry point for new  people wanting to get into our business because there's so many people that have  this license that really don't use it. I'm sure you probably know someone or  knew someone who has or had a real estate license in California that just  doesn't use it and that's quite common so don't feel concerned about that.  There's always a spot for a great hard-working new agent in our great real  estate business. Now the Bureau of Real Estate again top of page 3 is the  regulatory body that issues our license. Now at the bottom of page 3 you'll see  the term real estate commissioner at the bottom of page 3. So the real estate  commissioner no matter what day you take the test or what version of the exam you  happen to get you're probably going to get a question or two on the test about  the real estate commissioner and I want to give you all those right now. Now the  first thing I would make a note of at the bottom of page 3 right near where it  says real estate commissioner I would write the words appointed by governor. So  anytime we have a new real estate or anytime we have a new governor I should  say in California we get a new real estate commissioner to go along with him  or her. Now what does the commissioner do all day? Well if you look at the top of  page 4 you'll see this gray box that says real estate commissioner. I would  make a couple of notes here. Now the first thing I would look at is this  first black square at the top of page 4 where it says screens candidates for  licensing. So the real estate commissioner screens you for a real  estate license. Now what that means of course is that the real estate  commissioner will investigate your criminal background to determine whether  or not you can get a real estate license. Now as it relates to criminal  background checks because I know a lot of people have this question and they  say well Karthik what if I've been convicted of something and you know I've  having done this for so long and taught thousands of students tens of thousands  really to get their license I have heard everything from a DUI or I've heard you  know somebody had a burglary with a college party that one of my students  had that he broke into a house as a part of a college prank and he was you know  convicted of burglary I mean all sorts of stuff I've heard. The person that will  ultimately determine whether or not you can get a real estate license is the  real estate commissioner. So the real estate commissioner will basically  determine whether or not you can you can get a license and let me ask you this do  you think that all convictions should stop you from getting a license? Well  what about a DUI? Do you think that a DUI should stop you from getting a license?  Now a lot of people have had a DUI and they say well no you know I had my DUI  someone might save 20 years ago I was never convicted before nothing's  happened since you know I made a horrible mistake one day and I had a DUI.  The real estate commissioner will look at that and the totality of the  application and determine whether or not you can get a license. Now the good news  is even if the real estate commissioner initially denies the license ultimately  they'll always you'll always be entitled to a hearing so you'll always be  entitled to a hearing whether and to determine whether or not you're fit for  a license. So again the commissioner initially is going to screen you for a  license. Now some students ask well they do they check do they check your credit  before they give you a real estate license? They do not. We do not have to  go through a credit check to get our license. Now they will check your child  support payment history and I'll talk about that later on in this chapter but  the background check is done by the real estate or reviewed anyway by the real  estate commissioner. I would also make a little note here next to this gray box  on page four I would make a little note where it says investigates complaints  against licensees. You might want to write that next to the gray box at the  top of page four. The real estate commissioner will investigate a  complaint against you. Now be careful though for the test if the test were to  ask you who prosecutes you for a suspected violation of the real estate  law the prosecution is done by the district attorney. So be careful of this  on the test of the question on the exam were to say who will investigate  complaints against licensees? The commissioner. Prosecution for a violation  of the real estate law of course is done by the district attorney. So I'll  give you an example of this. Let's say that I'm your real estate agent and I  steal $10,000 from you. Now of course you're gonna be pissed because I took 10  grand from you as you should be and you're gonna complain about me to the  real estate commissioner. Now initially the real estate commissioner will  investigate that complaint. Now if it's true ultimately that I did steal $10,000  from you I should say do you think I should be jailed for stealing $10,000  from you? Of course I should go to jail right? I stole from you 10 grand. So who's  going to ultimately prosecute me? That's going to be the DA. So be careful of this  distinction on the test. If the question said who investigates complaints against  real estate licensees? The commissioner. Who prosecutes you for a suspected  violation of the real estate law? The DA prosecutes you. Remember how did the  commissioner get his job? He was appointed by the governor. Now by the  way the only reason I'm saying he is because it is a he currently. It was a  she about two commissioners ago but it's a it's a he now and the real estate  commissioner is appointed by the governor. The commissioner will screen  you for a license and will investigate complaints against licensees. Oh one  other thing you might want to write here at the top of page 4 next to this gray  box I would write the words no commission disputes. The real estate  commissioner will not get involved in a commission dispute between brokers. So  let's say that you and I have a deal. We close it together and the Commission's  $30,000. Now I take the whole $30,000. I don't pay you your half. If you threaten me  that you'll complain about me to the real estate commissioner you can go  ahead and complain about me to the real estate commissioner. The commissioner is  not going to get involved in that dispute. That's a civil case and of  course you'll have to hire a private attorney for that but the real estate  commissioner will investigate complaints against licensees but they will not  investigate complaints that involve commission disputes. Those of course are  civil matters that the commissioner will not be involved in. Now here at the very  top of page number 4 where it says real estate brokerage at the top of page 4  you might want to make a little note. I would write here at the top of page 4  that there are two licenses that are issued or that could be issued anyway by  the Bureau. One of those licenses is a broker license. Another license is a  salesperson license. Now what would you say is the difference between a broker  and a salesperson license? Well there's a few things that you could say but the  high order bit the most important thing to remember about a broker versus a  salesperson is that the broker can operate alone. So right next to real  estate broker somewhere at the top of page 4 I would just write the word  alone. Remember the broker can operate alone. The salesperson's license is only  active and I'm putting active in air quotes the salesperson's license is only  active if that license is also hung with a broker. Now what I mean by that is  imagine you got a salesperson's license but you haven't yet chosen a broker to  work it with or for yet. You cannot do anything that would require a real  estate license because that license has to be hung with a broker. So the  salesperson's license is kind of like a you know a toaster or a TV or a  refrigerator or any appliance. That appliance can only turn on if it's  plugged into the wall. The way you turn on your salesperson's license of course  is by hanging it with a licensed real estate broker. So let me ask you this true  or false for the test? A salesperson can operate independent of a broker. False.  A salesperson has to work for a broker in order to do anything that  would require a real estate license. Now if you set up your let's say you got  your broker's license and I'll tell you later on this chapter about how to  obtain that license but if you got your broker's license there's basically three  ways you could set up your company and you'll see these at the bottom of four  on the top of five there's three ways you could set it up. One way you could  set up your brokerage is as a sole proprietorship at the bottom of page four  you could set it up as a corporation or you could set it up as a partnership at  the very top of page number five. So those are the three ways you could set  up your company sole proprietor corporation or partnership. Now here's  something interesting regardless of how you set up your company whether it's a  sole proprietor a partnership or a corporation at all times at least one  person must be duly licensed as a broker. So if you're a broker and you're a sole  proprietor you yourself personally need a broker's license. If you're a  corporation your corp will have to have a licensed officer responsible for the  day-to-day activities at the corporation. So big companies like you know Coldwell  Banker Century 21 or Keller Williams at Remax these companies are typically set  up as corporations and really those companies will always have one licensed  broker responsible for the day-to-day activities at the corporation. Now being  the broker of record for a large real estate office can be a problem candidly  because if you have two three four five hundred real estate agents working for  you and one of those people does something wrong and they screw up your  personal broker's license could be subject to disciplinary action in the  event that your salesperson messes up. So again if you're a sole proprietor what  do you need? A broker license. If you have your real estate company set up as a  corporation bottom of page four you'll have to have a licensed officer  responsible for the day-to-day activities at the corporation. At the top  of page five if you're a partnership you yourself will need or one of the  partners I should say will need a broker's license. So again no matter how  you cut it sole proprietor corporation or partnership at least one person must  always be duly licensed as a broker responsible for what happens within the  organization. Now again that job carries a significant level of risk having a  being the broker of record because again you personally are responsible for what  happens within the organization and your license could be subject to disciplinary  action in the event that you know one of your salespeople screws up. Now here  at the top of page five I would also note that you could have a fictitious  business name. Now a fictitious business name really is any name that is  different than your real name. So if your name is Fred Flintstone you could be  Fred Flintstone DBA Century 21 or Fred Flintstone DBA Fred's Realty. Now if  you're going to have a fictitious business name what you need frankly is  you will need to file paperwork with the county clerk in the county that your  business is in. Get that DBA or doing business as filed. Send that DBA up to  the real estate commissioner and that DBA will be tied to your license. So a  fictitious business name statement has to be first filed with the county clerk  sent up to the Bureau of Real Estate and the real estate commissioner will  approve the DBA. So obviously the DBA cannot be violating some real estate law  it cannot be discriminatory in some way but you will ultimately need that DBA  approved by the real estate commissioner. Now here at the bottom of page five  you'll also see the term license inspection at the bottom of page number  five. So what happens really when you get your real estate license is your  broker will basically have to hold your physical license at the broker's main  office and you'll see this of course at the bottom of page number five where it  says license inspection. I would highlight that last sentence in that  paragraph it says the licenses of any salespeople working for the broker must  be on file at the broker's main office and you might want to underline those  words main office very important for the test because think about this for a  second like I'll give you an example let's say a large real estate company  like Coldwell Banker. So Coldwell Banker just like Keller Williams and Century 21  and REMAX a lot of these companies are franchises they're like McDonald's  they're all independently owned and operated. Now what that means of course  is that most of these offices will have separate owners and they're all separate  companies. Now candidly though if you look at a company like Coldwell Banker  Coldwell Banker actually has some of their offices that are corporate owned.  Now the headquarters for the corporate Coldwell Banker like I'll give you an  example of some of the corporate owned Coldwell Bankers. Coldwell Banker Beverly  Hills, Coldwell Banker Manhattan Beach all of those offices are corporate  offices. Their headquarters are actually in Mission Viejo in South Orange County.  Now imagine you work at the Beverly Hills office of Coldwell Banker your  physical salesperson's license will not be in Beverly Hills even though that's  the branch office where you work it'll be on file at the brokers main office.  So watch this true or false the licenses of any salespeople working for the  broker must be on file at the branch office where the salesman works. False.  True or false the licenses of salespeople working for a broker must be  posted in the public view. No I'm not saying anything about having them posted  but I am saying that the physical license has to be on file at the main  office of the broker. So very important you get a salesperson's license your  physical license is on file at the brokers main office. Now if you're  talking about you know franchise companies or companies are like  individually owned where you work is their main office because they don't  have any branches but if you work for a Berkshire Hathaway is the same way a lot  of the Berkshire Hathaway offices are part of a large conglomerate actually a  friend of mine named Bruce he has like 18 offices and 2,000 real estate agents  that work for him his main office is in Cerritos. Now if you work out of his  office in Ontario which is 40 miles away from Cerritos your license is not on  file in Ontario it's on file in Cerritos. So again bottom of page 5 the  licenses of any salespeople working for the broker must be on file at the  brokers main office. Now another thing I'd look at the bottom of page 5 where  it says broker salesperson relationship you know there's two ways that you could  work for someone at the bottom of page 5 and the top of page 6 there's two ways  you could work for someone you could work for someone as an independent  contractor or you could work for someone as an employee. Now in our great real  estate business you could either be treated as an independent contractor or  an employee you're actually both it just depends on who's asking. For example  somewhere at the bottom of page 5 or the top of page 6 I would write the word  employee and then next to employee I'd write employee-law. In the  eyes of the real estate law the salesperson is always considered an  employee of the broker. What that means of course is that if you as a salesperson  do something wrong not only are you in trouble the broker is also in trouble. So  that's characteristic of an employer-employee relationship right so  in the eyes of the real estate law you'll always be considered an employee  of the broker. However I would write independent contractor somewhere at the  bottom of page 5 or the top of page 6 and next to independent contractor I  would write the words tax, compensation, work hour requirements. So for tax  purposes, compensation purposes, and work hour requirements real estate sales  people are typically considered independent contractors. Here's what I  mean by that tax purposes you do not get a W-2 form you get a 1099 form  typically as a real estate salesperson. What that means is there's no  withholding generally for most real estate agents. So if you close a  $15,000 commission the broker will give you the $15,000. They don't withhold taxes  like they would if you were an employee. Now does that mean you don't pay taxes?  Of course not we all have to pay our taxes it's just that the taxes of course  are not withheld we pay those on our own. That's characteristic of an independent  contractor relationship. Compensation purposes we are independent contractors  also. What that means of course is that I hope I'm not disillusioning you you  probably know this already there's no starting salary in our real estate  business. We are 100% commission only we what we kill. Work hour requirements we  are independent contractors. Does your broker tell you when to come in in the  morning? When to go home at night? When to take a lunch? No we are independent  contractors for work hour requirements. So again you got to be very careful on  the test. Tax compensation work hour requirements we are treated as  independent contractors. In the eyes of the real estate law we're always  considered employees. So again you got to be very careful on the test about this.  If the test is asking are you an independent contractor or are you an  employee again it depends on who's asking the question. Now I want to show  you something at the bottom of seven we'll come back to that in a second but  I want to show you something on eight nine and ten and eleven here. If you look  on pages eight through eleven you'll see a sample independent contractor  agreement. This is a contract well you tell me who are the con who is this  contract between? Yeah this contract is between the broker and the salesperson  or the broker and the associate licensee. So at the very top of page number eight  I would write three words I'd write the words required by law. The law will  require that all salespeople with their broker have an independent contractor  agreement some written document between the two of them. So again if a broker  gets audited by the Bureau of Real Estate one of the first things the  auditor does is the auditor will check to see is the original license of the  salesperson on file in the brokers main office number one and number two they'll  also make sure that there is a written document between that broker and the  salesperson. Now you don't need to necessarily use this document you could  literally have a document on toilet paper signed by both parties and crayon  that'll work legally but this is a common independent contractor agreement  on pages eight through eleven that's used in real estate brokerage. Now what  are some things that you would probably want clearly spelled out in your  contract with your broker? Well some things you'd probably want clearly  spelled out are like commission splits. Maybe you know this already but you know  that's how real estate brokers make money right all these companies like  Coldwell Banker and Century 21 and Keller Williams they typically hire a ton of  real estate agents to work for them. Every time you close a deal the broker  takes a certain piece out of every check and that's gonna be 20 30 40 50 percent  out of every check the broker is gonna basically eat. If I was working for a  broker I sure as heck would want to know what percentage are you gonna take right  so compensation is something on page numbers eight through eleven that you'd  probably want clearly spelled out in your contract with your broker. Another  thing that you'd probably want clearly spelled out in your contract with your  broker are fees. You know this is kind of a common trend over the last probably 10  years in the real estate business is that you know back when I started most  salespeople were on like a 50 50 commission split with their broker maybe  60 40 but the broker basically provided a lot. The broker would for example run  ads on the paper the broker might pay for your for sales signs to be put up  the broker might even pay for your business cards or whatever it is. Today  what happens is that salespeople have squeezed brokers like a teenage pimple  and brokers are forced to pay 70 75 80 90 100 percent commission back to the  salesperson and the broker really candidly can't afford to provide a ton of  these services like they would before mainly because you know the broker isn't  really taken too much out of every commission for the from the salesperson.  So now brokers generally and this is you can find exceptions to this but  generally commission splits are much higher now to the benefit of the  salesperson but most brokers at least in major metropolitan areas like Los  Angeles or Orange County or the Bay Area they're gonna charge you some fee to  work there whether it's you know 50 bucks a month or 100 bucks a month or if  you have an office it's 300 a month or 500 a month or whatever it is if I was a  salesperson I would want to know what those fees look like that I have to pay  the broker if those are applicable. Another thing I would draw your  attention to of course here is on page 10 check out paragraph 10 on page 10  there's this paragraph about automobile basically how this what this paragraph  is saying is that salespeople have to add their broker as an additional  insured basically what this paragraph is saying is that the salesperson has to  add the broker as an additionally insured on the salesperson's car  insurance why because remember in the eyes of the real estate law we are  treated as employees of the broker so if you get in a car accident God forbid  while you're showing property or you're on your way to an appointment or you're  acting in the scope and course of employment basically the broker could be  liable for that which is why the standard California Association of  realtors contract is gonna call in paragraph 10 for the salesperson to have  minimum amounts of insurance also it's gonna call for the broker to be named as  an additional insured on the car insurance of the salesperson now you  don't need to know this for the test but in two three four five six months or  however long you know you're studying these classes that after you finish if  your broker says hey Sally add me as an additional insured on your car insurance  I don't want you to be caught off guard by that right the broker is gonna  require that mainly because you're an employee in the eyes of the company I  mean another way to look at this is imagine you're sitting at a red light  and God forbid a UPS truck barrels into the back of your car rear-ending you now  not only could you sue the driver of that truck but who else could you sue  UPS right because UPS is responsible for what happens while that driver is  acting in the scope and course of employment so long story short the  salesperson must add the broker as an additional insured on the salesperson's  car insurance and that's of course here in this independent contractor agreement  if you look here on page over 12 you'll see pages 12 and 13 these this is not a  full full list but it's close pages 12 and page over 13 basically list most of  the things that you could do with a real estate license in California now think  about this what's one thing you can do with a real estate license in  California okay you can sell houses hopefully that's not a shock to you  right you can sell houses with a real estate license in California you can  sell commercial real estate with a real estate license in California you can  sell raw land with a real estate license in California you can do middle  of page 12 you can do mobile homes if you want to ruin your life I'm kidding  you can do mobile home sales in California with a real estate license  you can be a loan officer at the bottom of 12 in the top of 13 now I would  caution you I don't want to mislead you if you're doing loans with a real estate  license you'll also need to take another 20-hour class called NMLS NMLS stands  for National Mortgage License Systems and you'll need an NMLS endorsement and  you'll see this of course at the top of 13 if you want to do loan origination  but you can do that with a real estate license plus your NMLS endorsement you  can do mineral oil and gas deals you can do commercial leasing this is a kind of  an interesting thing you know every realist every retailer Chipotle  Starbucks Chase Bank 7-eleven they all have real estate people that help find  them locations to open their stores you can I'll give you an example Chipotle I  won't name their names but you can find them online Chipotle a lot of those  restaurants in that have opened in Southern California all those deals were  done by one broker in Corona Del Mar down in Orange County who handles the  Chipotle account Nordstrom Rack is handled by a particular real estate  agent in Irvine and a lot of the Nordstrom Racks that were opened in  Southern California every time they open a location he gets paid there's a  gentleman in El Segundo that has the Chase Bank account for most of Southern  California every time Chase Bank opens a location that gentleman gets paid and  you know that's just another aspect of real estate so I'll let you follow your  whatever path you end up in but I know a lot of people that take our real estate  classes are kind of in transition they're not sure you know what they want  to do with their license when they when they grow up right when they finish but  there's a lot more that you can do with this real estate license than just sell  houses now don't misunderstand me you can make a great living selling houses  but there's a lot more ways that you can make money in real estate that involve  more than just selling houses so just something to think about so let's look  here at page number 14 and on page 14 you'll see the term business opportunity  brokerage and this is also another aspect of real estate specialization  that you could get involved in if you choose to now two things I would write  on page number 14 the first thing I would write is I'd write the words and  not a real estate transaction business opportunity brokerage is not a real  estate transaction this involves the sale of personal property not real  estate now here's what I mean by that so think of a business okay liquor store a  car wash a coin-operated laundromat a dry cleaner or whatever imagine a  restaurant let's say that's a business a real estate agent could sell a  restaurant now do you think most restaurants own the property that  they're in or are they paying rent paying rent right most restaurants don't  own their building so if you bought that restaurant you would not get a deed to  the restaurant you would actually get something called a bill of sale so  business opportunity transactions are actually transferred using a bill of sale  now if it were a real estate transaction you would get a deed personal property  transactions are transferred using a bill of sale so be careful of this  question on the test if you get it title to a business is transferred using what  document bill of sale title to real estate is transferred using a deed now  business opportunity transactions the challenge well let me ask you this  before we move on because this is a question that I get at least semi  frequently when I do this lecture in person a lot of people ask well Karthik  why are business opportunities under real estate licensees shouldn't this be  some kind of like business license or a license to sell a business well think  about it for a second if you bought my restaurant you're also probably either  going to be taking over my lease or you may be signing a new lease with the  landlord either way selling this business involves lease negotiation  experience and lease negotiation expertise which is why the state of  California puts this under real estate licensing too because of the lease  negotiation piece of the transaction so business opportunities do not involve  the sale of real estate they are personal property transactions number  one number two about businesses they're transferred of course using a bill of  sale now think about this I mentioned a restaurant earlier what is a restaurant  worth what do you think a restaurant costs well it'll depend on the  restaurant and how much revenue that restaurant is doing and how much profit  ultimately that restaurant has so imagine a really really really super  busy restaurant making 1 to 2 million dollars a month in sales that  restaurants gonna be worth a heck of a lot more than a restaurant that has a  D rating with the Health Department has roaches everywhere and you know a  one-star review on Yelp so here's the challenge you want to buy my restaurant  as a potential buyer naturally you're going to ask to look at the books make  sense when you look at those books they're probably going to be not  accurate because do you think most small restaurants have audited financial  statements stamped by a CPA at the end of each month of course not right most  restaurants you know maybe the restaurant owner has a Rolex and a big  Mercedes and you know 800 bucks in his pocket but he or she might be cheating  on his tax return now you and I we don't cheat on our taxes but a small business  owner owning a restaurant they might so the challenge of course is in valuation  and in fact you might want to write that of course at the bottom of page over 14  right near where it says taking and handling the business opportunity  listing I would write the words challenge in valuation the challenge in  valuation of course is how do you know what that restaurant makes right you  don't know what that restaurant makes so here's what you have to do you might  have to get a little creative you might have to for example do a just sit there  for a week every day for a whole week you might have to sit there and you know  count how many people come in and how many people what they buy in the case of  let's say a coin operated laundromat business you might have to do a utility  audit where you know how many gallons of water are used in a cycle of the wash  you know how much natural gas is used in a cycle of the dryer and you kind of  reverse engineer how much money that particular coin laundromat is doing the  point is is that that's a lot different than comping on a house right you want  to know what a house is worth you just look at what the house next door sold  for and you get an idea when you want to know what a restaurants worth you cannot  look at what the restaurant next door is doing because they might have sales that  are totally different than yours so again business opportunity brokerage is  an aspect of the real estate business that is a specialization so you could  say look I have a real estate license I do commercial real estate with the  subspecialty in businesses with a subspecialty in restaurants that's a  pretty niche aspect of your career but there's some real estate agents that  that's all they do they sell coin operated laundromats they sell  restaurants they sell dry cleaners they sell bars and nightclubs that is  something you can do with a real estate license in California but remember  you're not buying the land and the building most of the time you're buying  the furniture fixtures equipment and goodwill now another thing I would look  at here on page over 15 at the bottom is the prepaid rental listing service  business now a couple things that I would do here first at the bottom of 15  I would write three words I'd write the words sell a list what the prepaid  rental listing service license lets you do is it lets you sell a list they might  sell a list of what you can sell a list of available rental property and  probably one of the most successful PRLS businesses ever ever ever created is a  website called Westside rentals.com Westside rentals.com basically how they  made their money is basically they started a website a long time ago that  basically sells a list of properties available for lease now so I want to  live in Manhattan Beach and have a budget of $3,500 a month for rent let's  say now I want to find an apartment or find a place to live now I could go to  Craigslist but what's the challenge with Craigslist well I might get murdered  right I don't want to go to Craigslist challenge with Craigslist maybe is that  I might not be dealing with someone who's actually the owner challenge with  Craigslist maybe the properties in foreclosure so the PRLS business  basically vets these properties at least in theory the PRLS business vets  these properties and gives you a clean list of available rental property in  Manhattan Beach now this is basically like a subscription service so as a  PRLS licensee I will basically compile a list of properties available for lease  and through that list it'll I'll be able to read subsequently resell it so now a  couple things here three things we got to know about PRLS first I hope he  wrote this down already bottom of 15 PRLS lets you sell a list that's it  number one number two you'll see this of course here on page over 16 the PRLS  license is only good for two years your real estate license that you're getting  here with me is good for four years PRLS is good for two you might want to write  that at the bottom of 15 or the top of 16 somewhere here bottom of 15 is where  you'll find it and the third thing I would note here at the top of 16 is that  the PRLS business will require a $10,000 bond per location now what's a bond yeah  bond is basically insurance so here's what happens you go to a PRLS company  and it turns out to be run by a bunch of scammers and you pay them let's say 60  bucks for your month-long subscription and they basically sell you a bunch a  list of a bunch of fake properties properties and you know Nicaragua  Nigeria Azerbaijan Toronto Canada they're all over the world they're not  anything in Manhattan Beach eight minutes later you find out that you've  been scammed by this PRLS company well because you have a PRLS license you're  required to maintain a $10,000 bond per location and what happens with that  $10,000 bond is that if the company doesn't give you your money back you can  get restitution from the bond now our real estate agents required to be  bonded no PRLS companies are required under the real estate law to maintain a  $10,000 bond per location now a lot of people here will $10,000 bond per  location does that mean a $10,000 bond for every location on my list no so if I  have let's say I don't know a hundred properties on my list I don't need a  $10,000 bond per for all those hundred homes I just need a $10,000 bond per  brick-and-mortar office location so if I let's say I have a PRLS business in  Pasadena and another location in Manhattan Beach I'll have to have two  $10,000 surety bonds because I have two brick-and-mortar locations now even if I  was just an online company I still have one I'd have at least I would at least  need one bond mainly because you know I have an office address even if it's a  room out of my home I still have one location which is going to require one  $10,000 bond now here at the bottom of 16 you'll also see the term exemptions  from real estate licensing requirements this is basically a list at the bottom  of page 16 of all the people that could conduct real estate related activity and  they do not need a license to do it now you don't need to know all of these but  I do want to draw your attention in particular to two of these though one  that I look at is at the bottom of page 16 you'll see the first black square  near the middle of that page anyone dealing with his or her own property so  if you're dealing with your own business building land home condo mobile home you  can sell your own property and you don't need a real estate license in order to  do it so number one a person who deals only with his or her own property  another one I'd look at at the bottom of 16 about the fourth square down it says  anyone holding a duly executed power of attorney from the owner what's a power  of attorney well it's a document that lets you act on someone else's behalf so  if I give you power of attorney you are now like me so just like I could sell my  house without a real estate license you could sell my house for me as well  because you have power of attorney and you don't need a real estate license in  order to sell my home now of course you couldn't sell the home to yourself  because of the obvious conflict of interest associated with that but you  could sell my house for me without a license so and there's others here of  course if you're an employee of a bank doing real estate loans you don't need a  real estate license to work at a bank if you're an attorney at law rendering  services in the performance of your duties as an attorney so maybe you're  helping a couple get it you know that with a divorce and they need to sell  their home to a family member as part of the divorce settlement you could  facilitate the sale of that house without having a real estate license  because it's in connection with your engagement as a lawyer now I'm gonna put  17 through about page number 21 kind of together here it'll make a little more  interesting it'll make them you know make this a little more logical so let  me ask you this this is just some broad questions as to what it takes to get a  real estate license in California now let's talk about the requirements at the  bottom of 17 clear through to about page number 21 let's talk about the  requirements to obtain a real estate license in California both the  salesperson and a broker license now to get either license do you need to be 21  no 18 to get either license do you need to have a college degree no not even for  a broker's license you don't how about this for either license do you need a  high school degree no okay for either license do you at least need to show  that you've entered the country legally no they even took that away here  recently now candidly I might feel a certain way about that my job is not to  tell you my opinion my job is to tell you what the rules are so by the way  should they make it harder only after you finish then they can raise the  standards but the point is is that to get either of these licenses you don't  need to be 21 just need to be 18 you don't need to have a high school or  college degree not even for the broker license you don't need to have proof of  legal presence you know you do need to clear criminal background and have a  taxpayer identification number but you don't need to have a passport or birth  certificate or even a green card to get your real estate license in California  they'll check your criminal history we talked about that earlier in the chapter  before you can get a real estate license right we know that now we they won't  check your credit but they will check your child support payment history at  the bottom of 17 on the top of 18 now let me ask you this what's child support  I don't want to insult you but in case you don't know what child support is you  know two people make a baby one's like not around so much the one that's not  around has to pay to take care of the kid now generally child support is  ordered by the court so the state of California takes child support really  seriously in fact they will not let you have a driver's license in California  without if you have back child support so they definitely might not let you  have a real estate license so here's the deal if at the top of page 18 if you  have back child support the real estate commissioner will give you a 150 day  temporary license if you're still on the delinquent child support payer list  after 150 days they'll suspend the license until you're off the list of  course the reason they give you that hundred and fifty days is so you can  make some money to get off the delinquent child support list too but  very commonly asked question on the test right the test might say a real estate  licensee is attempting to renew his license the Department of Child Support  Services indicates that the party has failed to make the required child  support payments what will happen now you know the candidate will be issued a  150 day temporary license right they'll they won't revoke it they'll give you a  150 temporary license if you're still on that list after 150 days then they'll  suspend it or revoke it suspend it right they won't revoke the license they'll  just suspend it until you're off the list let's get into the nitty-gritty we  know that you have to have clear criminal background or an approved  criminal history you cannot be delinquent on your child support it  will give you that 150 day temporary license to get a broker license at the  top of page 18 I would write two things first I'd write the words experience and  then I'd also write the word education experience and education let's start  with the experience requirement first in order to get a real estate brokers  license you have to fulfill an experience requirement now what that  experience is there's basically one of two ways to qualify the first way that  you could qualify on the basis of experience is to have two years of  full-time experience in our great real estate business right two years full  time now the question of course is how does the government actually know  whether or not you were full-time well you'll have to fill out a document that  says how many deals you did how much money you made how many hours you worked  and your employing broker would have to sign that as well number one now a lot  of people ask well Karthik is it possible to work two years full-time 40  hours a week for a hundred and four weeks straight and make no money in real  estate is that possible well I guess it's just you have to explain to the  Real Estate Commissioner why you're the most unlucky embryo ever and why every  deal you touched for 104 solid weeks in a row exploded on contact but yeah I  guess theoretically you could work full-time for two years and make no  money now if you don't have that two years of full-time experience but you  want a broker's license anyway you could also qualify by having a bachelor's  degree with a major or minor in real estate now a lot of people say well my  college didn't offer a college degree with a major or minor in real estate I  understand that your degree might not be in real estate and that's kind of the  point you know prior to January 1st of 2013 I know that was a long time ago but  prior to January 1st of 2013 this could have actually been a college degree in  anything you could have had a degree in Russian and chemistry and literature and  physics and math in English and that would have qualified you as though you  had two years full-time experience but today the degree has to have been with a  major or minor in real estate right so again first piece to getting a broker's  license is experience either two years full-time or a bachelor's with a major  or minor in real estate for the salesperson's license at the middle of  19 there's no experience requirement there's only an education requirement  and the education requirement for a salesperson's license is just three  classes I hope you knew that you're in the program already right there's three  classes real estate principles real estate practice and an elective class  now that elective of course you'll see all these black squares at the middle of  page 19 those are the possible electives that you could take now here's a nice  thing about the eight classes for the broker's license the eight classes that  you need for the brokers three of those eight are in the salesperson's license  anyway so once you get your sales license you're three-eighths of the way  to getting a broker's license as it is right so again to get a salesperson's  license education only broker's license education and experience then you move  on to take the real estate exam you know the real estate exam on pages 19 and 20  all the real estate tests are multiple choice a B C and D there's no short  answer there's no essay there's no free response it's just a hundred and fifty  multiple choice questions for the salesperson's license you're given three  hours and 15 minutes to complete the sales license exam broker's test is 200  questions it's given in a two and a half hour morning session and a two and a  half hour afternoon session passing score on this test is a 75% or better  now I know a lot of you are perfectionists and you want to get a  hundred percent in everything that you do that's a really useful attitude to  have in life but this is not one of those times the state doesn't care what  you get on the test if you pass it in fact if you and I take the test let's  say we both took the broker's test you got a hundred and fifty questions out of  200 questions right barely passing 75% let's say I take it and I ace it 200 out  of 200 you and I will walk to our cars after the test with the exact same pass  notice the state does not tell you what you got on either test unless you fail  it if you fail it they'll say okay you needed to get a 70 let's say for the  sales exam you got a 69 that would suck and here's how you did in each of the  seven categories that you'll see at the middle of page 21 so the middle of 21 of  course are the seven categories that are on the real estate exam and again you  need to get a 75% on the broker's test 70% on the sales test in order to pass  now you'll never ever have to take the real estate exam again unless you do  what I'm about to say so don't do this every four years you're gonna have to  renew your real estate license and you'll see this at the bottom of page  number 20 so every four years you'll have to renew now this renewal basically  entails you know taking classes and online classes mainly in like agency  ethics trust fund handling fair housing risk management all that sort of thing  so long story short you will have to renew your license every four years now  if you forget to renew your license the state's actually pretty cool about this  the state will basically give you two years if you forget to renew it or you  can't renew it for whatever reason the state will give you a two-year grace  period now please don't misunderstand me during these two years at the bottom of  page 20 in the bottom of 21 during these two years you cannot work your license  is technically expired but you're in this weird like limbo position where as  long as you pay the late fee pay the renewal fee and take the renewal classes  you will not have to take the real estate exam all over again the problem  will arise if you let your license expire then you wait more than two years  from the date that it expired to renew then you'll have to requalify for and  retake the whole real estate test all over again so at the bottom of page 21  if a license is not renewed before it expires the licensees real estate  activities must cease immediately but a license that is not renewed before it  expires again may be renewed at any time up to two years from its expiration date  if you wait beyond that two years you'll have to requalify for and retake the  real estate exam all over again now if you look here at the top of 22 where it  says the real estate license number your real estate license number must be  on all first contact material with the public first contact material basically  means you know business cards websites email signature blocks fry flyers  brochures anytime the public would be meeting you for the first time you will  have to have your license number on all first contact material with the public  so keep that in mind that your license by the way a lot of students are kind of  confused by this they ask well is it my license number is it the broker's  license number or is it both it's your license number now the brokers name has  to be on the material as well but the license number is the salesperson or the  broker associates license number only the brokers license number does not need  to be on the first contact material now I don't want to confuse you when I say  broker associate all I mean by that is a licensed real estate broker working  for another licensed real estate broker basically in a salesperson capacity  right so again it's not the brokers license number it's the associate  licensees license number that must be on all first contact material with the  public now at the bottom of 22 through 23 you'll see of course where it says  enforcement of the real estate law so long story short you'll have to always  be entitled to a hearing before the real estate commissioner can suspend or revoke  a real estate license the licensee is always at the top of page 23 entitled to  a hearing now the result of that hearing of course may result in your license  being suspended your license being revoked the case being dismissed or  restricted so again the real estate commissioner cannot take a license away  without giving you a hearing now if your license is already disciplined in some  way that means of course you already have a suspended or restricted license  the license can be subject to further disciplinary action without a subsequent  hearing but if your license is clean the real estate commissioner cannot suspend  or revoke a license without first giving you a hearing  now at the bottom of 23 through 25 you'll see of course where it says types  of violations so basically these two pages 24 and 25 are basically all of the  thou shalt nots of the real estate law these are all of the things that you  absolutely cannot do with a real estate license in California and again if you  look at the top of 24 ultimately these are all violations of the business and  professions code so ultimately all of these are violations at the top of page  24 of the business and professions code so I'll give you a few things here first  if you look at the top of page number 24 about the top half you'll see with the  term co-mingling at the top half of 24 so co-mingling is basically mixing your  money with the client money anytime you take client money that client money has  to be kept in a totally separate account called a trust account if you put that  in your own personal account you violated the business and professions  code so at the top of 24 right top half co-mingling mixing broker money with  client money remember client money must be kept inside of a trust account now in  that paragraph about co-mingling you'll see this $200 rule the real estate  commissioner allows a real estate broker to keep up to $200 of their own money in  the trust account without being guilty of co-mingling basically to cover bank  service charges on the account so now you gotta be careful am I saying you  could keep 200 of client money in your account no way you can't have any client  money in your account you could keep 200 of your money though in the trust  account to cover those bank service charges without being guilty of co-mingling  that's of course at the top half of 24 you'll also have maybe a couple of other  questions on the exam about trust fund handling and I want to give you a couple  of those right now so the first thing I would note is I would write the word at  the margin on page 24 withdrawals from trust account the question is who could  withdraw from the trust account now there's only three people that are  permitted to withdraw from the trust account by the way the trust account has  whose money client money now the client actually is not one of the people that  could withdraw from the trust account because there's other clients monies in  that same account there's no law that requires segregated trust accounts you  could have one big fat trust account and just throw everybody's money in the same  account and that would actually be legal so clients cannot withdraw from the  trust account there's only three people that could withdraw first the broker can  withdraw from the trust account and appointed salesperson could withdraw  from the trust account now notice I'm saying appointed salespeople not all  salespeople not every salesperson just like randomly has access to the trust  account it's only those salespeople that are authorized by the broker also an  unlicensed employee of the broker could withdraw from the trust account but only  if that unlicensed employee is what bonded now what's a bond a bond of  course is like insurance so in the event that that unlicensed person who  hasn't cleared criminal background hasn't passed the real estate test if  they go crazy and they end up stealing all the money out of the trust account  there's no immediate risk of harm to the public because they're bonded so again  there's only three people that could withdraw from the trust account the  broker herself and appointed salesperson or unlicensed employees of the broker  that are also what that are also bonded now could it get confusing having so  many different clients monies inside of the trust account it could get confusing  having so many different clients monies in the trust account which is  essentially why the trust account must be reconciled monthly balances should  be checked daily on the trust account and the trust account should be  reconciled how often the trust account should be reconciled monthly a couple of  important things to remember about the trust account. First, trust accounts must be reconciled  monthly, number one. Only three people are permitted to withdraw from the trust account,  the broker himself, an unlicensed employee that's also bonded, or of course, an appointed  salesperson, right? Those are the only people that could withdraw from the trust account.  Also that, oh, by the way, one other thing that you might want to know for the test,  whose name should be on the trust account? Well, it's client money in the trust account.  So you might think naturally that the client's name should be on the trust account. But remember,  how many clients could we have in the same trust account? We could have as many clients  as we want. So the name on the trust account really should be the name of the broker, comma,  trust account, comma, trustee. So the name on the trust account has to be the name of  the broker, comma, trust account, comma, trustee. So those are some important things to remember  about trust account handling in general. And you can see why the real estate commissioner  will ask questions on the test about the trust account because it has to do with keeping  client money, right? So no matter what day you take the test or what version of the exam  you happen to get, you're always going to get a question or two on the test about trust  accounts. Now, a couple of last things I'd look at here from the chapter as we wrap it  up at the top of page 25, you'll see, of course, blind ad. Now, a blind ad is an ad that fails  to disclose that the advertiser is an agent. So anytime you run an ad in the ad, you have  to put that you're a real estate licensee in the ad. If you don't, the ad of course  is a blind ad. So you got to be careful on the test because you might see a couple of  questions on the exam about this. And it's important to remember that a blind ad must  disclose that the advertiser is an agent. If you don't, of course, it's known as a blind  ad. Again, the curve ball on the test might be, does the real estate commissioner require  that you put the price of the property in every ad? No. Does the real estate commissioner  require that a full address of the property be placed in the ad? No. But the real estate  commissioner will require that you have broker identification in every ad, or of course,  it's known as a blind ad. And that's here, of course, on page number 25. Now, a couple  of last things I'd look at, of course, from this particular chapter is I'd look at the  bottom of page number 28 and the top of 29. There's this discussion about the recovery  account at the bottom of 28 and the top of 29. Now, I would note one thing about the  recovery account. The first thing I'd note here at the bottom of page number 28 is I  would note that this is for uncollectible judgments. So you might want to write that  word or those words at the bottom of page number 28. The recovery account is for uncollectible  judgments. Now, what's a judgment? A judgment, of course, is a final decision by a court.  Uncollectible, of course, implies that the judgment is not able to be collected on. So  maybe you sue someone and they flee the country. They file bankruptcy. They just refuse to  pay you. In the case of someone that flat out cannot or will not pay, if they're a real  estate licensee, the recovery account will basically make that member of the public or  client whole again. So again, before the recovery account at the bottom of page number 28 is  relevant, the licensee must have been sued and lost. And ultimately, the judgment is  uncollectible. Now, one note that I would make here at the bottom of 28 and the top  of 29 is the real estate commissioner will have certain dollar amounts that they will  honor. One dollar amount is $50,000. So $50,000 is the maximum amount that the recovery account  will ever pay out on any one transaction. So a $250,000 is the maximum amount per licensee  at the very top of page number 29. So for your whole life as a real estate agent, the  maximum amount that the recovery account will ever pay out is $250,000. Now, of course,  the good news is your license will be suspended or revoked way before you get to that $250,000  figure. Now, let me tell you how this might be framed on the exam. So the exam might say  a real estate licensee represents a person in the purchase of an apartment building.  The real estate licensee lies to that buyer about how much money the building makes, and  the licensee is ultimately sued. The client loses $75,000 based on this lie. The client  sues the real estate agent and wins. Now, of course, you have a judgment. The agent  files bankruptcy and flees the country, essentially rendering that judgment uncollectible. Now,  this person could go to the recovery account and file a claim with the recovery account,  and the recovery account would pay out $50,000. Now, in my story, the client lost $75,000,  but the recovery account, remember, for any one transaction, the maximum amount that they'll  pay is $50,000. So again, $50,000 is a maximum amount on any one deal. $250,000 is the maximum  amount per licensee. What that means, again, is for your whole life as a real estate agent,  the maximum amount that the recovery account will ever pay out to cover something you screwed  up is $250,000. Now, this is not like insurance. And the main way this differs from insurance,  of course, is that insurance, you don't necessarily have to pay back. With the recovery account,  you do have to pay this money back. So you might want to make a note of this at the bottom  of 28 or the top of 29. I would write the words license suspended until paid back plus  interest. Your license will be suspended until you pay the recovery account back this amount  plus interest. So again, this is not like insurance. This is, of course, a situation  where this must be reimbursed to the Bureau of Real Estate or your license will stay suspended.  Now the last thing I want to share with you from this chapter is on pages 29 and page  30. So on page number 29, you'll see on page number 29, the term Realtor. Now an important  thing to remember about Realtor, I know that word is kind of ubiquitous. We always use  that term Realtor for anybody that, for example, sells real estate. But the truth is, is that  the term Realtor, in order to call yourself a Realtor, like most things in life, you have  to pay money. This will cost about $1,200 over the course of a year to call yourself  a Realtor. Now that $1,200 is not insignificant. So what do you get for your $1,200 by being  a Realtor? Well, the first thing you get, and you might want to write this down at the  bottom of 29, is I'd write the letters MLS. So in order to have access to the MLS, you'll  need to be a Realtor. Now you probably know this already, but what is the MLS? The MLS,  of course, is the Multiple Listing Service. And the MLS basically lets you search for  property for sale. So if somebody says, hey, I want to buy a house in Hancock Park, I don't  get in my Prius and drive all around Hancock Park like a crazy person looking for sale  signs. I search the MLS. Then to get in that house, I'll need something called an E-key.  And an E-key is an electronic key that allows you to open property for sale. And you'll  also get Zip Forms, like the word zipper. Zip Forms is the contract generation software.  And Zip Forms basically will allow you to write up contracts. So again, if you're selling  residential real estate, you basically cannot work unless you're a Realtor. You'll need  the MLS to search for property. You'll need an E-key to open up the door. You'll need  the Zip Form software to write up contracts. So not every real estate agent is a Realtor.  Again, in order to call yourself a Realtor, you have to pay. By the way, it's unethical  and illegal to call yourself a Realtor if you're not. So very important to join the  Association of Realtors, particularly if you're selling residential property. Now, the National  Association and the California Association of Realtors did some pretty stupid things  over the years. In fact, one pretty stupid thing they did for a long time is they wouldn't  join. So in 1947, a group of predominantly black real estate agents got together and  formed something on page 30 called NAREB. NAREB is the National Association of Real  Estate Brokers. Those members are called Realtists at the middle of page 30. Now today, regardless  of your ethnicity, are you probably a Realtor or Realtist? You're a Realtor, right? Most  of us. But remember, in order to call yourself a Realtor or Realtist, you're not automatically  a member of such an organization. You have to pay in order to be able to use that registered  trademark. Again, this is basically chapter one, kind of an introductory chapter. How  to get a real estate license, the requirements to become a broker, the requirements to become  a salesperson, what it means to be a Realtor, trust fund handling, some advertising requirements.  We talked about the structure of the Bureau of Real Estate, the recovery account. So real  introductory chapter. Don't forget to listen to this again if something didn't make sense  or if there's something that you want to hear again. Again, you have access to this throughout  your enrollment period. So don't be shy. You know, feel free to play this back and we'll  catch you guys in a little bit for chapter two. 