 In Hong Kong on a short 3 month visa, so I said why not learn the local language so that  I can communicate with people, local people you know.  You see I am all by myself, my wife also died, so I am alone now, that is why I came to Hong  Kong with him, my son, so it is quite likely I may be coming here more often or I may stay  here for longer duration, so then it is useful, interesting, useful and challenge to learn  the local language here.  So I think I want to learn Cantonese and my father also wanted to learn Cantonese.  I thought it was a good opportunity to learn together and I think my father is a lot of  fun, so learning something with him in the same class is a great opportunity.  I do find it is difficult, in fact I read about it also, this is the most difficult  language to learn, so that I took as a challenge.  Yeah I think I like that, I like to call him Harish, because like my fellow student, otherwise  I will never get a chance to call him Harish, I have to call him Papa.  And also there is this little competition, because he works really hard at his studies,  so I also have to, it keeps me going you know.  You make things difficult for me many times, because it is a tonal language and for us  to get those tones is difficult, even after I think more than one dozen lessons, I do  find it difficult in pronouncing, but I think one should pick up a little, thank you.  I want to share two instances, one after the first day of my Cantonese class, I go down  to the concierge and I am speaking to him in Cantonese and he is telling me, sir do  you need something, I said what, then I am speaking again, he is saying is there a problem  sir, I said no I am speaking in Cantonese, he is saying no this is not Cantonese, so  the good thing is that after the first class I was very excited, but the reality is that  I need some more time, but after few classes, when I was coming up by the elevator, the  elevator man said where do you want to go, I said 6th floor, he said oh 7th floor, yes,  then he understood, so I am getting something.  Do you like Hong Kong, I mean how do you like your, no, we love Hong Kong, not like, this  is the, this is the book Harish write, this is Hindi in Amazon, it is in Amazon also. 