 In this video I want to provide a description of the syllabus which we're  going to cover in the undergraduate course. So at the back of our minds  within the undergraduate course and actually at the graduate level as well  the idea is that there is some population and within that population  there might be countries, there might be individuals, there might be firms and the  idea is that we don't actually have the whole population data set. We only have a  sample from that population. So perhaps we have just these sort of figures which  I'm sort of highlighting here in purple and these individuals form a sample data  set and the idea with econometrics is that we want to use some sort of tool,  some sort of statistical or mathematical tool on that sample to enable us to make  some sort of inference about what's going on in the population or to make  some sort of estimation of some sort of population parameter. So what exactly do  I mean by estimating the population parameter? So there might be a  relationship between the level of wage which an individual sort of obtains and  their level of education which is given by this sort of relationship here which  I've sort of drawn mathematically and the idea here is that the sort of  coefficient beta might represent the sort of effect of one year extra of  education on a sort of individual's average level of wages and that would be  sort of defined within our population. That would be the sort of average effect  of one year of education on wages within the population. But the idea is that we  don't actually have the whole population's data, we only have a sample  from that data. So we'd like to use our tool on the sample to enable us to  estimate this particular parameter, in this case beta. When we first start off  talking about estimation techniques we're going to first start off discussing  cross-sectional data. So that might be when we have the level of wages and the  level of education for a set of individuals at one point in time. And it  just so happens that under a certain set of criteria that a tool which we call  ordinary least squares happens to be quite a good tool to use on our sample.  So under a certain set of criteria ordinary least squares happens to be  what we call blue, so that means it's the best linear unbiased estimator possible.  Don't worry if you don't understand what that means, we're going to cover that in  due course. The set of criteria which need to be  fulfilled are what we call the Gauss-Markov assumptions. And assuming  that each of these is satisfied then ordinary least squares are a sort of  useful thing to use on our sample. But how do we actually go ahead and test  these certain criteria? Well we need a sort of set of what we call  diagnostic tests. And what these tests enable us to do is they enable us to  test as to whether it's the case that these criteria are satisfied.  And if each of these criteria are satisfied that's fine we can still use  OLS on our sample and that will enable us to make some sort of good estimate  about the population parameters. But if these criteria aren't satisfying  so these diagnostic tests show us that they aren't satisfying,  then ordinary least squares is no longer blue.  And in this particular circumstance we need to define  a whole sort of new set of estimators which  may not be blue but they may possess some other sort of good  property which an estimator might have, in particular consistency.  And under a sort of set of less restrictive assumptions  they may happen to be blue or consistent. So  some of the estimators we're going to discuss here are the sort of  instrumental variables estimation, GLS estimators and sort of maximum  likelihood estimators. We may also talk a little bit about  GMM but we're going to keep that to a minimum.  I should also mention that I'm going to try and make this course  as non-mathematical as possible. Wherever I can avoid using maths  I'm going to avoid it and where I do use maths there is not necessarily the need  to follow those videos if you're just looking for the sort of intuition behind  the theory. So the second part of the  course is going to be concerned with a different type of data which we call  time series data. An example of time series data might be  let's say we have a given company's level of sales but  now we don't just have it at one point in time,  we might have it across time. So this might represent a company's sales  across time. Alternatively we might be looking at  the sort of GDP within the UK, we might be looking at sort of inflation within  the UK and time series is much more the realm  of macro econometrics opposed to micro econometrics which is where  cross-sectional data is mainly concerned.  In the sort of time series section we're going to discuss sort of properties of  time series so we're going to talk about what it means for a  time series to be what we call stationary. We're also going to discuss  two particular examples of time series which we call  autoregressive of order one and we're also going to discuss sort of  MA of order one that means moving average of order one  process. Again don't worry if you don't know what these mean we're going to  discuss them in due course. So that's going to sort of compose the  second part of the undergraduate course. The sort of  final part is going to be what we call sort of panel  data methods. So that's going to be concerned with  what happens if we don't just have an individual sort of level of data at a  given point in time but let's say we have the same sort of  individual's data but across time so we might have that  individual's level of wage in 2010 and then we have that individual's level  of wage in 2011 and it just so happens that for  panel data as well as sort of a time series data  we need to modify the Gauss-Markov assumption slightly to  take into account the fact that our data is now  sort of correlated across time it's no longer independent  and actually when we amend these sort of Gauss-Markov conditions we're actually  not really going to be talking about a population of data anymore  we're actually going to be talking about what we call a data generating process  because the idea is that you can't really think about a sample of data  as taken from an infinite amount of time you have to think about some sort of data  generating process which is generating samples at  different points in time so it doesn't really make sense to talk  about populations when we're discussing time series and panel data  for panel data we're going to discuss what we call the sort of between  estimator we're also going to discuss the within estimator  and then if we have sort of time we're going to discuss fixed effects  and random effects as well 