 Hey guys! Hello! So for the last few weeks I've been teasing you that I've been working  on something in the background and well we're going to show you some construction photos  here while we talk about it. I had this idea a while back. Jason Totic from Totic.com had  given us a bunch of breadboards and when we were at Parallax Robotics Expo, Roy Eltham  also gave us another huge pile of them. So we're awash in breadboards and I was trying  to think of a good project for them and this great idea popped into my head. I was thinking  that wouldn't it be great if there was a synthesizer that had breadboards just built into the face  of it. The idea of a modular synth but going past the module stage down into the prototyping  of module stage so I could build things custom from the ground up. I thought that was a pretty  cool idea and there's a lot of different ways to sort of approach that but most of them  were very sloppy. Then Roy came up with this great idea of hacking the backs of the breadboards  and actually soldering to the leads on the inside of the boards so that I could hide  all of the wires that connect to the keyboards and the jacks and all of that inside the case  and just have the circuit that I'd want to change be on the actual surface of the breadboard.  So I went about getting into Google SketchUp and sort of designing a case for this thing  and I went through a couple of iterations and mostly it was designed around the size  of the keyboard that I had laying around which is 25 keys and the closest that I could  get to that with some breadboards stretched across and the maximum length of material  that I could cut with the tools that we have here. So this shape is sort of based on all  of that. The inside is about 13 5 8ths width and that was the closest I could get. It's  not perfect for both of them but you know when you're working with existing materials  you kind of have to use what's there. We didn't buy anything to do this project. We did it  all with scrap material and scavenged resources. We used a Todic.com power supply, an MGH propeller  ASC. That's Arduino shield compatible propeller. Just some shift registers we had laying around  and a couple of capacitors and a bunch of wires and resistors and stuff. So basically  we've got keys and I've hacked the board so that each key is completely separate from  all of the others and they feed into 32 inputs on this daisy chain of shift registers and  that gets pulled into the propeller and it's just using them to control SIDCOG at the moment  which is a Commodore 64 SID chip emulator. Can I ask a question? Go ahead. So if I put  like a whole bunch of resistors and capacitors on this breadboard and somehow connect them  to each other I can make a different kind of sound? Yeah. Right now I'm just using the  propeller to sort of generate my tones for me but what I'd like to be able to do is do  something like have you know this going into a propeller and the propeller doing sort of  a pulse width modulation to get a voltage out that controls like a 555 timer. Okay.  And that'll just generate a square wave. So does this require a microcontroller or can  it actually do it without microcontroller? You can do it without because the behind each of these  pins where the keys come into these shift registers there's a wire that literally runs  down to the switches inside the keys so you don't have to use the shift registers into a  microcontroller you can actually use voltage off those lines as they come up to control stuff up  here. Now we've only got so much breadboard space so that's only so practical but you could  definitely put together something that allowed you to have different voltages for different  keys and then those would feed something like a 555 timer or any sort of voltage controlled  oscillator where the amount of voltage going into it changes the frequency that comes out  of it. So the synth could either be purely analog or in this case analog and digital? Yeah and we've  got four sets running down the middle here these are actually connected to the speakers the line  outputs on the back of the unit and I left enough room here to sort of be able to build a synth  here and be able to build some filter stuff here and we'll get to that another time. For today I  just want to sort it to demonstrate what it can sound like with just a prop and some some shift  registers. Are we gonna be able to take it apart? Yeah it's not these aren't glued down yet okay and  nor is this screwed in yet I still need to finish the case. Okay. There's still some sharp edges and  we need to put a final coat of something on there. I mean on this video. Are we gonna be able to take  it apart? No no no no okay it's too sensitive that's why I took pictures during assembly. Okay  yeah all right so that's like monophonic and what you'd expect but I did this fancy. You can  actually play up to three notes at a time because it said chip had three voices now this keyboard  supports full polyphony which means you could hold on every single key and have it make notes if you  had the right sort of tone generating circuit up there in the top. Okay. Runs out on four like so.  Cool. Awesome. Yeah I haven't written any pieces for ProtoSynth yet but yeah we just got this  working like I don't know 20 minutes ago. Yeah it's been a lot of late nights. So yeah that's the  basic idea here and you could do any number of things like instead of it just being controlled  by the keyboard you could build a sequencer over here and have your sequencer being controlling  your tones making them come out. You could build sort of a drum machine on this and have the  sequencer cue off the drums while you're playing. It's actually has four outputs so you could  actually do multi-channel recording of a drum machine, bass loop thing, and a synthesizer you  know harmony and melody sort of stuff going on all at the same time and they could have discrete  outputs or you could use these to sort of bring signals in from the outside run it through a  filter circuit or something that you built here and then run it back out to your recording system.  You could do sort of a combination of both right where you've got your synthesizer here is actually  controlling an effect like you build a filter circuit and what keys you're pushing changes  like its filter frequency or something like that and that could be affecting a signal that comes  in through the back and then goes back out to your equipment. Can you explain a little how you  hooked everything up? Well I did show construction photos of that I mean it's it's solder and wires.  Oh so you soldered I mean that's an oxygenate keyboard right and then that's it was soldered  to the backs of this these red boards right? Yep. Okay to the to where the shift registers are? Yep.  And then these are soldered to where the the jacks are. Where the jacks are okay and you have  how many jacks four jacks and they're all the same? Quarter inch jacks. Oh. But they each have  their own dedicated bus line there. I see so then so for instance right now since you only have one  bus line attached or being touched or whatever being addressed you only have one jack going out.  Right. I see but you don't have to you could put everything to that one bus line. Yeah and I could  I could be running four Sidcogs in here and get it up to the point where I would have 12 notes  that I could play at the same time with Sidcogs and they could just go out to all four channels  and then my mixer could deal with mixing them together outboard or you could build a mixer here  and put them onto one. That's that's the idea you can you can do what you want to do and not have to  build something new to do it you can just you know I mean case wise keyboard wise you know it's  all arranged and then you can just be creative here and not have to worry about wires everywhere.  Cool. All right well that's my project. Good project. We will be back building circuits on  this very soon. Yep. That's it for us. Bye. Bye. We post videos all the time so don't forget to  subscribe and follow us on Twitter at TYMKRS. 