 12 steps of construction.  Once the construction drawings and other related documents  have been completed and approved  by the authority and jurisdiction,  the project will then be awarded to a contractor  by the client through a consultant.  In this period, the construction  of the proposed project will begin.  Construction can be summarized into 12 stages.  One, clearing of the ground.  To begin the actual construction,  the clearing of the ground from where the location  of the project will be built  is the first thing to consider.  The construction personnel task  is to free the construction site  for any obstruction and debris  that may obstruct and delay the construction.  The temporary facilities such as engineer's office,  labor's quarter, material storage room,  temporary water, and electric supplies  and other related facilities should also be constructed  prior to the start of work.  A site perimeter fence should also be constructed  during this period.  Two, site layout and staking.  This activity involves the setting of the reference points  in a form of construction grid lines  and marking off the gate level.  This is performed to ensure that the grids  have been set up on site according to approved plans.  The reference point should be marked properly  and should not be disturbed  throughout the course of the construction.  Grid lines according to the approved drawing  should be layout prior to construction.  Depending on the complexity and size of the project,  the construction grids can be layout  through the use of theodolite  or related surveying instruments.  A more traditional way of the layout  of the construction grid is popular to use  for small projects as through staking  using batter board and strings.  Batter board are temporary wooden frames  used to suspend the strings.  The strings are the representation of the grid lines  at X and Y directions according to approved plans.  These will serve as a guide throughout the construction,  so it is important to fix a reference line  in both directions to be used  once the grids have been placed  when needed in the construction.  Three, excavation.  Once the layouts of construction points  and grid lines have been completed,  the excavation works begin.  The excavation depth depends on the recommendation  by the soil investigation report,  but it is safe to say that the minimum excavation level  for the footing to rest should stick to one meter  below the gate level or the 0.00 level.  Excavation works is a massive activity,  therefore a proper caution should be observed  during this stage.  In the event that the excavation needed  is along with the neighbor's existing structure  exceeding 1.20 meter from your proposed level,  then shoring support is recommended.  Four, compacting and laying of PCC.  Compacting of the excavated surface  should perform once we reach the desired excavation level.  A layer of crushed gravel is then to be added  during the compacting.  In a standard compaction procedure,  the final compacted layer should be checked  in order to reach the desired degree of compaction  to not less than 95% of the maximum dry density.  It is then in this stage that an anti-termite treatment  on the ground should also be considered.  The laying of PCC or plain concrete cement  should follow afterward in preparation for rebar works.  PCC is usually composed of a 10 millimeters  thick lean concrete for the footing rebar  to be laid evenly level.  Five, foundation rebar and column starter bars.  Once the laying of PCC has been set up,  the rebar works for foundation  and any foundation beams are the next activity.  In this stage, the reinforcement of foundations  is being prepared according to the structural schedule  along with its formworks.  The proper and standard concrete cover  should be observed during this procedure.  Starter bars for columns should also be installed  accordingly before concrete pouring.  Six, concreting of foundations  and column rebar installation.  Concreting of foundations has to come next  after the rebar works.  The concrete to be poured should be properly vibrated  for the concrete especially the aggregates  to fully spread into the footing.  Installation of column reinforcement  on the previously installed column starter bars  should be continued.  A proper concrete cover should consider  before closing the formworks.  For substructure columns, an additional concrete cover  of at least 50 millimeters has to be considered  up to plinth level to protect the rebar  for possible corrosion due to sulfate attack.  Seven, concreting of column and bitumen paint applications  once the concreting of stub columns has been completed.  Give time for the concrete to dry completely  and apply at least two coats of bitumen paint  for both footing and stub columns.  Bitumen paint helps in absorbing moisture  due to the soil to prevent seepage  into the substructure concrete.  Eight, setting up perimeter blocks.  Install solid blocks along the perimeter  or the edge of the proposed project.  This is to establish a boundary between the inside  and outside edges of the project.  It is also helpful when the difference  of inside floor finish level to outside pavement  or ground level is significant.  Two coats of bitumen paints should also apply afterward.  In some cases, perimeter blocks are optional  especially for areas where the soil characteristics  are too firm.  Nine, backfilling and compacting.  Once the substructures like foundation structures  including the solid blocks have been installed completed,  backfilling and compacting should take place.  Backfilling and compacting should be done partially  to make sure that the required degree of compacting  has been met until reaching the bottom of the tie beam level.  10, tie beam reinforcement, grade slap, and concreting.  Preparation and installing the tie beam reinforcement  as per the approved drawing is the next step to consider  after the backfilling and compacting.  Formworks with standard concrete cover  are also included in this stage.  Once the reinforcement works have been completed,  we can start the concreting.  Installing of grade slab mesh and concrete work  is then to be followed.  11, rebar works and concreting of columns.  At this stage, the substructure component of our project  has been completed.  It is now time for the project to go up.  The next thing to consider is the rebar works,  shuttering or formworks and concreting to be done.  Prior to concreting, we see to it that the columns  follow the structural schedule.  The formworks should be vertically level and a standard.  Concrete cover has to maintain  prior to the closing of forms.  12, beam and slab works.  Once the ground floor columns have been cast,  it is time to prepare the project for beams  and suspended slab reinforcement activity.  Like any other structural members,  beams and slab reinforcement should be followed strictly.  Shuttering or formworks for slab and beams  should be properly anchored  and checked prior to concrete pouring.  Step 11 can be repeated accordingly until such time  that the structural frame or the core and shell  of the structure has been completed.  The architectural finishing works are then be followed.  Thanks for watching.  Please subscribe for more. 