 You  Yeah, it's hard to say what it is exactly  So, why is it so exciting why we care so much about it  You don't know what it is. Oh, yeah, what you know what you're looking for you could see it it's break time  I  Think one of the best things about Lindisfarne is that it's such a big excavation in terms of  Basically, the whole team gets to come we all have a role to play here and it's like a big family reunion  My  Name is Maya and I'm head of community at DigVentures  I'm Indy Jago, and I'm a community archaeologist for DigVentures. My name is Ben Sweene. I'm Harriet  I'm Jodie Hannis. I'm David Wallace. My name is Nat  I'm community archaeologist with DigVentures. I'm Ginny and I'm the intern  I shouldn't do that. I can't get away with it. I can't pull that off  So DigVentures started as really just Brendan and I and our dog and  then we went up to two dogs and more people but it's been like an organic process and  Actually adding people to this team has been the hardest part of it  So when I think about describing my team as a whole and which I do often because people ask me  We are the island of misfit toys  You know  It's the place where all the toys who were slightly off somehow and didn't get to go to Girls and Boys at Christmas by Santa  They all end up there. And of course, they're the coolest. They're the most interesting  They're the ones who've got it all going on and that's how I feel about my team  The digs divides into two halves  We've got an eastern trench and a western trench in the western trench  They're getting a sense of actually there's quite a bit of stratigraphy on the site  So we're using that kind of cut through that as a section  Which is quite a cheating way of seeing as a cross-section through the archaeology  We've also started to find a whole series of features around that site. See circular features. We keep on joking about  To see the full extent of it and you know just to see if it's coming this way  Underneath the cuts and extending into this area or not  It looks like it's a bit higher on the edge here  Yeah  We can see what's going on. Yeah, I just don't know what it is. No, I don't know what it is  There's a lot to talk about when it comes to the circular feature semi-circular feature burnt feature big round thing it's  Yeah, it's it's hard to say what it is exactly we weren't really sure quite what was going on we knew we had a big  circular feature  There's quite a bit of burning  Having dug down. It's just clearly got bigger and bigger and bigger and  The name is has evolved the interpretations have evolved. We just don't know what it is  It's potentially it could be a corn drive. Then I was looking at other examples of corn drives  They're square Jackson corn drives a square. This is circular  It's a large circular feature  Some people say that the fines for team is  Some people say that the fines team is a breed of its own  That  might be true to a point because I think in order to be  Really good in the fines room. You need to be a bit pedantic  I've learned over many years that if you have stuff lying around especially sharpies and masking tape it  Disappears archaeologists when they see a sharpie. They think oh  There's sharpie. I might need one. They pocket it  Not with me  This year because of the pandemic  We have to keep things clean. We have to keep them sanitized. We have to keep them separated  So I made sure that every table has their own masking tape and sharpie  I'm johanna  And i'm community archaeologist with thick ventures. I I don't think i've ever really come across anyone like johanna  before  Uh, I don't know how to describe her  She's um  Um unique yes unique I think johanna is unique  Anyway, i'm smiling at you now  I told you that doesn't work  Um, what i'm going to tell you. Yeah is I snuck in here before anyone else was about into the fines room  Right, I did move the box I knew it back  I've got my coin book out  because  I wanted to see what it was and I couldn't wait  I did not lose any of her fines  What fines were those?  Did you move her coins?  Right  So I went in nice and early to go and try and identify  Some coins so that I could share that with her and she could share that with everyone else  It could be I think it says I thought I don't know it definitely says that i'm just not sure what the printer well  But I have you  Well, so many it's when you don't have any imagination how to call your children  I guess yes  Um, it wasn't me. It was maya  Maya came in later and took that tray away and two of those  Coins ended up in different bags. I was the one who rescued the situation  I didn't steal it. I asked her permission if I could use it. Johanna and I sometimes fight over  stuff in the fines room because I want to take loads of pretty social media pictures of them and  Sort of share some of our discoveries and she likes to have everything in its in its place  Yeah, I think it was probably me that took the box of coins  So  I've been an archaeologist for as long as I could possibly remember, but it wasn't until  My my very early 20s that I went back to university as a mature student  The first summer of that first year I went to do field work and that changed everything for me  I found the first first artifact of the dig. It was a small  Bone point, you know, I didn't just find that point, but I found my point and really discovered myself  Okay  So very excited when you were talking at dinner about um circular things cutting circular fingers kind of circular things  Um  It's not it's not helping is it  um  So even with that  Um up against um, you know this terrible sunlight, which is great for archaeologists not so great for the archaeology  Um, talk talk me through what you have  So you've got  Something coming through  Okay  We're not entirely sure what it is because it seems like a bigger bit. Okay, then we've got theories  So just to recap on on that so I can see that they've got slightly more stone on your edge here  Is this outside of everything? Is your line coming through?  Got it. Okay  I feel like I need to apologize for this kind of very objective. Oh, it's a um, it's a circular feature or it's an amorphous blob  It's vital that you know when we're digging we don't pre-judge what it is that we've got  And so I hope everyone understands that um, we're not just being cagey, uh, we're being good archaeologists  I don't know why archaeologists they just refuse to name anything because if they name it they feel like they've committed  And I think archaeologists just have commitment issues  We know that monasteries one of the things about these monasteries is they're big sites where they do lots of production  They do a bit creating things. There's lots of crafts and industry  um, so  We're fairly confident. It's early medieval. That's the first battle because it's cut by by later graves, which gives us a kind of later  Upper day to which it could be  Um, and at this stage, we're at the stage of lots of potential, you know, we need to dig it  Um, but I think i'm particularly excited by the possibility of that  You see what we have from this is that small find. I think it's 135 which is um, crucible like it's ceramic. It's um,  Could have been used in a process but might be superstructure rather than used as a crucible  And but got our  Archaeometallurgist gerry mcdonnell really really excited  So what i'm trying to understand is whether this is related to any of that burnt material down below  What we thought was just a really small half was suddenly turning into this great big burnt feature backfilled  About maybe seven eight meters across potentially  We realized that we've got  What hints of iron smithing?  Even maybe iron smelting copper alloy working. Um  But we only just started to scratch the edge of that feature. It's a big feature top secret. It is a kiln  We know this because we've got metal work in debris, um, but for now, um, we'll just call it a circular feature  the archaeomag  Person i'm going to abbreviate it because I can't say the full word  It's coming out to site and then maybe when they call it something  We'll be we'll not be so reluctant to call it that  So when someone else says it we're okay to call it that. Yeah  It's not our fault then if it's wrong  It was interesting looking at the area as a whole because  Stratigraphically, this is obviously higher. Yeah, and all of the metal things we've got these little tags from the detector that came out from up here  were lead  Further down in the secret zone there. Yeah, it was more anglo-saxon coinage  Okay, so it really helps to prove to us that we've got later stuff up here and further down with the earlier stuff  So we've got a nice build up of material  That's brilliant and that then gives us confidence to maybe be a bit more robust as we start to take this area down  Okay, that's it  My area of the trench is a sort of the south part of the main trench, too  The very first day  We actually turned up three coins in one day and up until that point  There's only been seven found I believe in the past four seasons. We did started just  Sweeping the trench for the metal detector to come up with some targets which we labeled in the ground  And I thought I don't know what they'll be. They might just be bits of lead or iron or something  But you mark them in anyway, and when you come to excavate that layer  We had venturers just cleaning back and I said, oh there's a target there. So let's just have a little  Investigator in that so that we don't lose it. That was the point at which we started finding  some lovely  coins  Early to mid 9th century, I believe something like 830 to 840 a.d  Which is not too long after the viking raids  So there is still a little time gap there, but it's only sort of 40 40 50 years roughly  I  Should just say the photogrammetry that we're using so it takes photographs stitches them together creates a model  Basically, i'm going to imagine that the site here is gridded up  And i'm going to walk up and down in straight lines and then move across up and down in straight lines  walking one step forward  Taking a photo move another step forward take a photo and keep on doing that  I really like the use of digital technologies and the way that they've embraced that  dig ventures i've always been given the opportunity to explore and  find something that that works and  Really can communicate what we're finding in the ground  With a much wider audience if we can record something say in 3d on the ground then that can then be uploaded  Put online and somebody the other side of the world can then see and enjoy that  You'll have noticed the sun comes out and when it does I have a shadow  And unfortunately that shadow moves  with me  Which means that when it's taking the images  It's always got that there so that's moving the whole time, um, which is a bit frustrating  We'll have a if we have a little break now, hopefully i'll be able to get this done  At some point so I can stop standing here  and then  Then you can take photos  And everyone can be refreshed  Yeah, do you want to let people know thanks  I haven't got any snacks  Just stranded  The photogrametry takes a while  The sun has been miserable  Um, i'd much rather have a nice  overcast day  Uh, and the wind as well when you've got a camera on the top of a very long pole  It can get a bit blowy and it's difficult to  Uh to hold it up straight  What do you think the chances the wind will blow that tiny little cloud over?  Fairly small  But you end up with a  very accurate  Realistic model which  You know, it's not just something that we can use but we can share with other people. It seems like a no-brainer  I've done this so many times so many times and the only time  Where I get stuck in a trench is when i'm being filmed  So  Getting a busy bee action shot, can you all type furiously?  Thank you  So this is the hub of activity that is oh, yeah social media wild keyboard spelling  Fighting the trolls day by day  You're killing them with kindness. Yeah  I think just thinking that I could go through your tray if you want and throw out anything that you should ignore  Because I think that especially smaller stones there are a lot in there at least they were in the other trays  Usually there is always one or two fines at least in the fine string  But the thing is because we work with volunteers and with people who might not have dug before and this is their first day  It's better if they put stuff into the fines tray. That is nothing then to chuck it away because they're not sure  But often it's also not easy to tell when you're in the trench if something's something  So that's also why the fine stream is quite important  Because that is where you then distinguish and sort out and say, okay  Good bad good bad keep people actually  I think many of them just come back and back to the fines room because of johanna. She's also just  So positive she leaves us all these little sticky notes every every few days giving us like little words of inspiration and  Saying what she likes about everyone on the team. It's so sweet  So  For me it's actually the people that we're working with for me. It's the community. It's the fact that I know that by  offering this to people we're  Making a change for them and they actually really like coming here and I like all the interaction. I like their enthusiasm  I know of a lot of people who have actually told us that we more or less changed their lives in a way and  some of these stories are really touching and  it's just  It's just nice to know that that you're doing that for people and you're not just sitting in front of a  laptop all day  When it comes to fines, I like the personal fines so last year we found the finger with the two rings on it  Where you kind of your mind starts working  If I touch the object never actually clean it then I get a connection to it  Because you hold it for so long and you look at it so closely that you start thinking about it  And once you start thinking about it, you start thinking about possible story story of the object  Especially the story of the person who has held made  Lost that object and  now this year we found a skull that might have been hit by an  Arrow or something  Because it actually has two holes and one of them seems to be partially healed so that's quite interesting  And this bit was also found by david just underneath the skull  And apparently it could be some kind of a weapon  Could be again. It's just  One of the theories one of the little stories that we're thinking about when we're working with these fines  So  There you can see it looks almost as if it has a pointy end  I don't need gold. I don't need swords. I just need stories 