 Welcome back to Ox Tools, I'm Tom.  So I've got kind of a neat story for you guys today.  I just want to say you meet some really neat people on the internet.  You meet some other types too, but for the most part the folks that I've met on the internet  are pretty amazing.  These are people that I probably never would have met without the internet.  They're hundreds of miles away or thousands of miles away, and with the internet and that  powerful collaborative tool, I've met all kinds of really neat people.  So this story starts out, a viewer reached out to me and said, hey, I would love to send  something into the show, and feel free to show it on camera, pass it along to somebody  else that you want, etc., and I did that.  So he mailed a little package, and you guys saw this recently, this is a guy named Chip  Banks, and he sent the Keller cutter down, and a few other items.  Well anyway, Chip actually visited the shop, and we hit it off immediately, we were running  around the shop here, and telling stories, and looking at all kinds of stuff.  Anyway, he sent me a, just kind of out of the blue, he sent me a link to a Craigslist  ad, and it was a retired toolmaker, and actually about an hour and a half from here, selling  off his toolboxes, didn't want the stuff anymore, he likes to fish and play with cars.  So anyway, I contacted this fellow, and made arrangements to go look at his stuff, and  I went out and I ended up buying some things from him, which you guys will see here in  a minute, some just amazing stuff.  Anyway, we immediately hit it off, it was like we had worked in the same shop together,  and we had been rubbing elbows, there was that shop camaraderie that you have when you  work with folks, or you work in the same trade as folks.  I was looking at some of his pieces, and checking clearances, and doing all that stuff, and  he noticed all that, and anyway, we had a good laugh, and I'm proud to have some of  his stuff that he made, and the best part is that I got to meet the man that made it.  So instead of somebody that had passed away, and I didn't have the opportunity to meet  him, I met this gentleman.  So let's quit talking, and let's go look at some really cool tools, and I'll show you  some of Steve Edwards' fantastic work, okay, let's go check it out.  Okay guys, this is the stuff that I bought from the toolmaker, Steve Edwards, and he's  got all his stuff marked in a very cool way, he made an electrode, and he burned a little  star with his initials in it, SE there, which is pretty neat, and we'll zoom in on these  and look at them, because there's some really unique features here.  I'd have to say that some of the design elements of these are just, I haven't seen stuff like  this before, it's kind of unique in this, you know, I mean, sure, yeah, it's a V-block,  it's a signed dresser, things like that, but there's some design elements here that are  worth noting, so we'll kind of dig into those and take a look at them.  So I'll just go through it real quick here, we got just some random parallels here, this  is some of Steve's early work here, which kind of appealed to me, and, you know, he  was generous enough, he kind of just threw that stuff in, these are some three-sided  blocks here, it's a very accurately matched pair for blocking things in on the grinder  or on the mill or whatever, this is a signed dresser, and it's got two diamonds on it here  and you can dress surface grinding wheels off at an angle.  This is a very unique V-block here, and we'll dig into the details on that.  We've got a squareness comparator slash height gauge here, so it's a two-sided squareness  comparator, okay, with a flexure between it here, with a little tenths indicator on it,  we'll take a look at that, and we've got this piece here, which is a dual-sided, two-sided  sign fixture with sliding V-blocks, oops, I didn't loosen that one, I'll loosen that  one up, so it's got a slotted V-block for doing like the heads of pins and things like  that, and then just a moving V-block here, so we'll take a look at that.  We've got some wee blocks here, these are called wee blocks, they're itty-bitty teeny-tiny  little V-blocks for holding small, small stuff, and then this is a small granite stone for  lapping gauge blocks, and then just a India polishing stone.  So I'm going to bring the camera in closer, and you know, I probably won't go through  the parallels, they're pretty standard stuff, but the rest of this stuff is pretty unique,  and we'll go through the details on it, okay?  Okay, so the first one here are these three-sided blocks here, and you know, you can use these  for blocking in parts on the surface grinder, you can use them like little angle plates  in different attitudes.  This pair, you know, it's not going to match up real nice on carpet here, but what Steve  was saying was these are matched up really nice on height and length and width real well,  and in fact, there's a secret mark on it here, depending on how you're using them.  So he's got a little star and a little star, he says they're matched up really well in  this direction here, and less than a tenth, I guess, is what he was saying, so he's got  one little nick in it from the surface grinder there.  But they're kind of nice, they're small and low, and they're nice and thick here, so let's  get some dimensions on there, three and a half inches, or 90 millimeters, okay?  And then we got, I don't know, one and seven eighths, or, you know, 47 millimeters that  way, and then what are they like that, that's, okay, same way, one and seven eighths, that  direction as well.  And there's his little logo there, you can't see it that well on this particular one here,  but he burned that in with the EDM, okay?  So those are pretty cool, so let's move on to the next thing here.  Let's take a look at this guy here, this is pretty cool here, okay?  You know what, I got to get an Allen wrench here, and we'll open this thing up properly.  I'll slide that off.  You know, and it was raining today, so I went out to his place and, you know, as we were  hauling this stuff out to the car, some of it got wet, and so I had to get back in here  and dry them off and lube them up.  So the way this works, okay, the way this guy works here, this slides on a little dovetail  here, okay?  And you can, it's got a, it's a sign set up with a three and a half inches, yeah, three  and a half inches, okay, so you put some gauge blocks in there and lock it down.  And it has a, one of the neat things, I thought, let me pull it out here, is the little retaining  pin here, you can move it up, can I get it back out, yeah, I can get it back out, you  can move it up depending on where you're set.  So if you're set at a real high angle like that, you can put it in there at a low angle  down here, right?  It's got a little socket head to pull it down and snug it against your blocks there.  Now the other neat thing about this is it's got a big wide base on it, so you can actually  use it this way too, okay, and use it in that attitude as well, okay, which is kind of nice.  So you can use it like this and tip it up and then dress your wheel, zip, zip, zip,  okay, or you can stand it up this way and dress your wheel vertically too, which is  kind of a unique feature.  You know, when I first saw it, it was kind of big and blocky and it caught my attention  because of that, and then I started looking at it and I go, oh yeah, that's some nice  features there.  I hit that right the first time.  So this is one of the things, you know, I was talking to him and I picked this up and  I gave this the little wiggle test, right, and there's absolutely no perceptible wiggle,  but it just moves perfectly freely, okay, so it's just really nice work there, okay.  All right, let's look at the next thing here.  Oops, I should, I forgot to put that back in there.  I'll put that back in there off camera.  All right, so what we got here is, this is a squareness comparator slash height gauge,  okay, and it's got this nice heavy base on it, so it's nice and stable, and then on this  end, it's got the curved feeler, and this is a nice feature too.  It's adjustable for height, for height, and so sometimes you want to bring this down and  get it lower because there's a step or a feature on the part or bring it up a little bit, so  this has the ability to go up and down.  And then on the other end, it's built into it.  It has a little one, which is kind of nice.  It's very, very close to the, very close to the bottom, okay, and then it's got two, two  indicator arms, or two indicator mounts, and this one is a quarter inch here, and this  came with it.  This is a little Alena tenths indicator, and this is, they call this right angle style  a jig bore style, I think, and so let's put that back in, and then this one here fits  the little inter-rapid stems, you know, and it's just attention to detail here.  You know, you can put the stem in two ways in this one here, okay, and then this one  has a, you can put a stem in that way as well, too, so, you know, it's just nice details.  Now, one of my favorite parts to this whole thing is look at this end.  Is that cool?  He spent the time and faceted that end and polished it.  Is that pretty cool?  That's pretty cool.  I just love that kind of stuff, you know, where it's this artistic flourish, right,  that he put into his work, okay, and this one's different than mine.  I put the flexure out on the end, okay, so that made me have to do this in a different  way, but he's kind of installed the flexure in between here, which is kind of a neat way  of doing that, and then you can adjust, and that tips the column there, okay, and it's  got three points on the bottom, all right, that are nice and lapped and everything, so  pretty neat, all right?  So let's move on here, and let's take a look at some of the, let's take a look at the next  thing here.  All right, so this is one of the first things I noticed when I walked in there and we started  talking was this gigantic V-block, and this thing's a monster, okay?  It probably weighs 20 pounds, something like that, but it's got some really neat design  elements on it, so let's take the clamp off first, okay, and, you know, he even put his  little logo in the clamp there.  It's kind of neat, right?  So that's a hell of a clamp, jeez.  One of the really neat features of this, well, let's just go through it here, so it's got  a step here, this allows you to grind the heads of pins, things like that, or things  that have a little step on them, okay?  Now one of the neat things is this sliding end here, okay, and you can see that that  slides in relation to the main V-block, okay, so you can now create a step there.  This is very unique, I've never seen one like this before, okay, and it's kind of cool,  and very nicely executed.  Let's pull that off, and you guys can see underneath there, okay, and of course, you  know, it's got the toolmaker fit there, so, all right, let's pop that off, all right?  You can see underneath there, it's all, you know, and, okay, so here's, look at this,  so he didn't, you know, what this means here, let me, god, that thing weighs a ton here,  let's look at some of this.  See this corner in here?  Us mere mortals would probably put a grinding relief in there, okay, and what he's done  is he's dispensed with the grinding relief, okay, and so he probably rough ground that  and then came back with a very hard, a hard wheel, maybe a 100 grit wheel or something  like that, that will maintain a pretty sharp corner, and he went back in there and sharpened  that corner up, okay?  You know, it takes a lot of patience to do that, and to get this nice and flat across  here right up into that, right up into that edge, okay, now, sure, it's relieved on this  corner here, but, you know, like I said, most of us would go in and put a big grinding relief  like that in there to do something like that.  So then, okay, so let's look at this, so when you pop this end off, now we've got some counter  board holes, so you can bolt this down to the table or down to the mill table or whatever,  and use it vertically, okay, and if we flip it over, he's put a 5A slot in here that you  can bolt a key in, okay, that you can bolt a key in that drops in the table of the mill,  so you can index this right onto the mill table, and same thing on the bottom, okay,  and it's got a couple of counter board holes there, too, so you can attach this down this  way or you can attach it down this way, and key it right to the machine, okay, it's just  cool, it's just very cool, alright, let's put that back in there, and this, you know,  there's no wiggle, okay, and I've got to believe that he ground these together, you know, with  it all indexed together, so they're going to be matched really well, this is the only hard part  here that I found is when you take those screws out, you know what, I'm just going to do that off  camera later, okay, so that's a pretty spectacular V block, and just to give, oops, there it is,  tape measure, get an idea on size, at the top of the V here, we are, we're three and a half inches,  we're 90 millimeters, and then the length here is 135 millimeters, or five and three-eighths inches,  and you know, it's, it's a hundred millimeters tall, four inches, pretty cool, I mean, I saw  that, and I was like, oh, that is a neat V block, and then once again, he's got his little logo in  there that I just, I really enjoy that logo, so, alright, so let's look at the, let's look at the  next thing here, alright, here's the next really interesting piece here too, and this one jumped  out at me too, as being extremely unique, I've never seen anything like this, so we've got a set  of V blocks here, basically, that are sliding on a, on a rail, okay, you can put them together,  you can separate them, create a space in between them, you can take one off, you can take the other  off, so there's some versatility there, okay, two clamps, and now what's neat about this thing here  is, it's, let me take that one off, I'm gonna take this one off too, and it's got a T-slot there,  he's got his name on everything, so, what I found interesting too, is this little T-nut here,  it's got somebody else's name on it, so, so Steve, if you're watching this, Phil Amada is looking for  his T-nut, and he's pissed, man, you got his T-nut, okay, anyway, I got to make another T-nut or  something for this one, so I don't have to trade them back and forth, but, you know, and you could  just use these like regular V-blocks too, if you wanted to, they're a good size, so, what's  interesting here, and let's take a look at some of the details on this thing here, this, it's quite  large, okay, but you can bolt this down in a number of ways, okay, so we're flat on this side, and it's  got a hole, so we can, we can attach it down like that, and that means we can have our V-blocks this  way, just dead vertical, and you see how much height we have here, that's really nice, because  sometimes you run into, you're dealing with a kind of a long cylindrical part, and you need some  height to your V-block, which is, oh, you know, they're always stubby like that, right, okay, so you can  bolt it down there, now the next cool thing is, we can bolt it down on this side as well, okay, but on  this side, we have sign rolls, okay, and this is his boss here, check this out, this one, and this one,  either in this, there's three of them, right, so these two are one sign set up, and then this one,  and this one, so they're sharing a sign rolls, okay, so this one's three inch, and this one's five,  probably, yep, five, okay, so here's the next cool thing, check this out, you don't, you just don't see  this, okay, you see, you see what he's done here, you see that radius there, this is really hard to do, guys,  okay, and I know a bunch of you guys are going, oh, you just wire EDM that, that's not what Steve did here,  these were jig ground, okay, you know, and I was talking to him, and we talked about it, and Steve  ran a Moore jig grinder, which is a very, very interesting machine, real old school, it's basically  a jig bore that has a 30,000 rpm grinder on it that can, that can grind stuff like this, and  it grinds it kind of like a boring bar, okay, so it orbits, right, it orbits the grinding  abrasive wheel, and then you can feed down with it, and it has super hyper accurate positioning  ability, okay, so now, I haven't checked any of this stuff yet, and which might be fun to do,  to check the centers on this, and see, see how, you know, if I can, if I can even measure them, okay,  so you just don't see that kind of stuff, the, you know, normally this would be just a  rectangular slot that somebody put them in, but what Steve did was, so you got to get two things,  you got to get two things right on this, right, is you have to get the center distance right,  and you got to get the depth really right too, okay, so that means the center of that radius has  to be right where you, right where you, you want it, right where you think you want it, okay,  so anyway, this, this one here, you can do a sine thing like this, or you can do a sine thing like  this, and it's got bolts, bolt holes, so you can tie it down to the table, and put it in any damn  angle that you want, it's just, it's just spectacular, okay, I have never seen anything like this before,  and you know, I'm just really proud to have spotted that, and, and recognize it for what a,  you know, a unique piece like that, and Steve, once again, if you're watching this, this is a really  cool piece, and I'm honored to, to have purchased this from you, man, this is, this is really cool,  okay, so let's put that, we'll put it back together, and then I got a couple of books that I  got from them, and then we'll just close out, and, and, and call it, call it the end there, okay,  all right, so this is kind of the last, the last thing here, actually, I'll probably show  one more thing over here, some books I got from them, and you know, I'm a, I'm a book collector,  I just love old technical books, this is a, a series of books from the International Textbook  Company, and they had literally, there's, this is volume 206c, they had hundreds and hundreds of  different, you know, subjects, and they were in little books like this, and they have this  characteristic cover, or liner like this, and this one's about tempering and heat treating steel,  and there's kind of some interesting old, old school stuff in here that's kind of neat,  wonderful drawings, just a neat old book, I haven't really perused this too,  too thoroughly yet, and yeah, this is pretty typical of them, they have these big,  they have fold outs, you know, but a lot of these have these just wonderful plates in here,  with these half-tone shadings, and, or lithographs, or whatever they are, right,  they talk about packing stuff in leather in here to carburize it, and just kind of neat, so  if you see these in, in old used bookstores, check them out, because there are many, many,  many different subjects, steam engines, drafting, sketching, metallurgy, all kinds of stuff, so  pretty, pretty neat, modern shop practice, let's see, who's this one by here,  oh wow, there you go, that's a great statement there, the theoretical man knows why,  the practical man knows how, the men who, let's, let's see, what does it say,  the man who would lead must know why and how, so okay, that's, that's cool, probably Henry Ford,  or somebody said that, huh, let's see, who, who did this one here,  American Technical Society, 1931,  a little bit of everything in this, so, you know, shop stuff, there were some things on  lapping and tool grinding in here, which were kind of neat, once again, just kind of an old  machine shop book, and then this guy, this is pretty cool here, this is a catalog from this  company, you know, they used to send out these hardbound catalogs, and it's just a bunch of tools,  different flavors of tools, and chucks, and fixtures, and kind of commercial parts,  they had stellite bits in here, there's a cool Morse taper knocker router thing there, which is  kind of neat, and there's an old name that you don't, you don't see very often, it's Scully  Jones, I think is what it is, yeah, yeah, Scully Jones, they used to make a lot of Morse taper  sleeves, and, and fixtures, and things like that, and I know they're, were bought up by somebody  there, chucks, and they're, okay, let's see if I can, I won't be able to go back, of course,  there's a, they had a, oh yeah, heavy duty chuck keys, now there's, that's kind of neat, this is a,  this is the kind you see now, pretty much across the board, I don't think I've ever seen one like  that, but that's, that would be nice, right, you know, this gives you a broader contact surface,  and might be a nice project to modify your chuck keys to add some, some, you know, proper ergonomic  kind of grippy handles too, you can't buy those that I know of, so anyway, just some cool little  books, and one more little thing I'll show you guys, and, and then we'll wrap this up. Okay,  so this is a, something that I've been wanting for a while, and this is called a Wee, Wee Block,  like W-E-E, okay, and there you can probably see it, Super Wee Block, and this is made by the  Faith Tool Company, and basically this is a tiny little v-block, okay, and the idea is that  you can put this, this is a sub v-block that you can put into a bigger v-block,  well it does, doesn't stop there, it's got two, two flavors, this is the large version here, okay,  and let's find the tiniest one here, that's probably the tiniest one, so there's the  tiniest one, and I can plop that in there like so, okay, so basically I can hold a wire in there  if I wanted to, okay, and, and hold it on center, and, and hold it very nicely, okay, so, and this  does come up, you know, you want to hold a hypodermic needle, and you want to grind it off  at an angle or something like that, I've had to do that kind of stuff, but sometimes holding those  parts can be, can be a little bit challenging there, so this is a super v-block set,  and, and then let's go ahead and show, let's go ahead and show these, I, you know, Steve's, when  he was an apprentice or when he was very young, these are some of his first shop projects that  he made, okay, and you can see the, you can see how this gentleman progressed as a, as a tool maker,  right, let's see, let's bring something in that, did this have his logo on it?  I gotta, I wanted to find something that had his logo on it here, okay, so this is 1974, let's see,  what was I doing in 1974? I was just a, I was a little, I was a punk kid running around Berkeley  causing trouble, and, and Steve was, was learning his trade and steel stamping his work at the time,  right, and so this is some of the first pieces that he made, okay, which, you know, for me,  this is nice too, because it's, it shows the progression of this gentleman's work,  you know, from early career to, to later career, where he's really, he's really got the stones  going there, okay, so the guy knows, he knows what he's doing, he can do the work, and it's,  it's pretty neat to see that kind of, that progression, so Steve, thanks very much,  it was a pleasure doing business with you, and I really, I hope you come out to the shop one day,  and the, the viewers can meet you, and you can show me some tricks of the trade,  talk to you later, my friend. 