 Something that helps me immensely when I'm dealing with the stresses of everyday life  is perspective.  So in this video, I want to give you just that.  Back in 2011, there was a guy called Dr. Ali Benazir, who did some rough calculations about  the likelihood that you exist, okay?  That any one person exists.  And the calculations go something like this.  First, we calculate the probability that your parents met, which is apparently about one  in 20,000.  And then we add in the chance that they actually start dating and stay together long enough  to have kids after they've met.  So that's about one in 2,000.  And then just with those things too alone, the probability of that happening is about  one in 40 million.  And now things start to get even more interesting.  Your mom produces about 100,000 eggs in her lifetime, and your dad produces about four  trillion sperm during the years that you could have been born.  So the odds of that one egg meeting that one sperm to make you instead of your sibling  are about one in 400 quadrillion, which is a four with 17 zeros after it.  But it gets better.  Your existence here, now, and on planet Earth presupposes another extremely unlikely chain  of events.  So namely, that every one of your ancestors lived to a reproductive age, going all the  way back, not just to the first humans, but all the way back to the first single-celled  organism.  Keep in mind that you are literally the result of an unbroken lineage of life going back  4 billion years.  So the chances of that happening are one in 10 to the power of 45,000.  That's a 10 with 45,000 zeros after it.  So that number is so unfathomably large that our human brain cannot comprehend it.  It's not just larger than the number of particles in our entire universe, it's larger than all  of the particles in the universe if every particle was a whole universe in itself.  So that is pretty massive, right?  But it gets better.  The right sperm also had to meet the right egg for every single one of those ancestors,  going back all the way to your single-celled organism ancestors.  And there would have been about 150,000 ancestors in total, apparently.  The chances of that happening are one in 10 to the power of 2.64 million.  So if we add up all of these probabilities together, the chance of you existing is, according  to this guy's calculations, one in 10 to the power of 2.685 million.  That is a 10 with 2,685,000 zeros after it.  So let's try and put that into perspective.  If 2 million people got together and every one of those people rolled a dice that had  not six sides, but one trillion sides, and then 2 million people rolled that same one  trillion-sided dice, and they all rolled exactly the same number, that's the probability that  you exist at all.  And yet, here you are, watching this video.  Now just in case that hasn't blown your mind enough, let's chat about what you're made  from.  When the universe started, there was just hydrogen and a bit of helium, and basically  nothing else.  And all of the other elements in our universe were formed in huge explosions, supernovas  in fact, which is the explosion of massive stars.  So that means that most of the material that our physical bodies are made from is literally  the result of an exploding star.  We are stardust.  We're made from stardust.  And this also means that we have stuff in our physical bodies that is as old as the  universe itself.  So this is the same for most of the matter on earth.  Salt for example has two chemicals, sodium and chloride.  Both of those chemicals were formed inside stars that exploded billions of years ago,  and at some point they found their way onto earth.  And every time you eat salt, you should be absolutely amazed at it.  You're literally eating an exploded star.  And you are an exploded star.  And the probability that you exist at all to eat the salt is so low that it might as  well be zero.  It is nothing short of a miracle that you exist.  So now you have some perspective.  You're an absolute miracle.  Every morning when you wake up, remember this perspective.  Be grateful that you are alive at all, because not everyone was so lucky to make it through  last night.  In fact, yesterday, 100,000 people around the world died, and you were not one of them.  But one day, you will be.  So be grateful for today.  And next time you wake up worrying about some stupid mundane thing like what someone else  thinks of you, or the model of your car, or whether you might fail at something, put it  into perspective.  The fact that you exist at all is a miracle, and soon you're going to die.  So how big does that problem seem now?  And also, if you're a human, which you are, you almost definitely have a whole stack of  irrational fears that are holding you back from achieving greatness.  And right now is the time to think about those fears.  Are they really that scary when you put them into perspective?  Given that you've been gifted with this absolute miracle of life, and you will never live again,  do you think it might be worth just facing those fears and living your best life? 