 Hey there, it's Bob Rulow from The Aesthetic Blueprint. Thanks for taking a  moment to watch this video. I have a quick question for you. Have you ever  asked yourself why patients come to see you? I mean, what is their real motivation  to come and seek your services? I ask this question all the time  from the stage at our immersion seminars and I get, you know, answers like, well  people want to look good or they want to look younger or somebody cites a special  occasion that's coming up. Now all those are valid answers, but at The Aesthetic  Blueprint, we believe that patients are looking for much more than that. In fact,  we believe that right now there's a movement going on in aesthetics that  literally is going to change the landscape of the marketplace forever and  this change is based on a simple yet very powerful belief and that is this. We  believe that today aesthetic patients are looking for much more than to just  look good. It's no longer about chasing the fountain of youth, but rather finding  life transformation. That might sound corny, but people want to transform their  lives for whatever reason they want to transform their lives. Now we also  believe that of all the medical specialties in the world, your specialty,  aesthetic medicine, has the ability to help them do just that, transform their  lives. And this is real, right? I mean, we've all heard wonderful stories of  aesthetic patients stepping out of the shadows of their own comfort zone to  overcome some fear or some major life challenge. And it gives us chills. It  gives us chills because we know deep down in our hearts that we have the  ability to help them find something better, to help them transform their  lives. But we also know that many aesthetic patients are skeptical. Right  now they don't believe that you can solve their problems and help them  change their lives. How do we know this? Well, we know that price drives their  very decision to choose you. And when price becomes that important, then really  important things like trust fall by the wayside. But what if you were able to  create a world where patients viewed you, the practitioner, not as a health care  provider, but as a life transformer. A place in time where trust between the  treater and the treated has no walls. And the only goal is not to just unleash  one's outer beauty potential, but one's inner beauty, which we all know is a  hundred times more attractive. You see, we believe this place exists already  inside you. It's the very reason why you chose this crazy specialty of aesthetic  medicine. And it's why you get up every day and do what you do every day for  them every day. Now, granted, it may have gotten lost in your clinical training  and injection techniques and facial anatomy, but at the end of the day, it's  what drives you. It's because you believe that you truly can help change  these people's lives. Is this making sense to you? I mean, are you nodding  your head right now in agreement with me? If you are, then guess what? You're part  of a movement. You're part of this movement to move away from just creating  beauty and moving more toward life transformation. Just like those 250,000  people that marched on Washington DC to hear Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.'s, I have  a dream speech, you too are part of a movement. Back then, those people  sacrificed everything to see the civil rights movement come alive. They stood in  that hot August sun, not just to hear Dr. King's speech, but to embrace a movement,  a movement to change lives. Now look, if history doesn't embrace our movement of  helping aesthetic patients transform their lives with the same zeal and  vigor that it did the civil rights movement, it doesn't make our movement  any less important, especially to the lives of those souls that are out there  right now looking for your help. But as in any movement, sacrifice is required.  Sacrifice to look beyond our personal goals and to create something greater  than ourselves. You see, this is what we believe at the Aesthetic Blueprint. We  believe that opportunity in aesthetics is not about beating the competition, but  rather coming together as a community to help develop ideas that literally will  help these people solve their problems and change their lives. It's actually the  exact opposite of how many people think right now. We believe that as a community  we have to come together, to work together, to train together, to share  ideas together, to challenge each other and spend our energies finding out ways  and figuring out ways to help these people get better, to change their lives.  Not wasting valuable time and energy thinking about the competition down the  street or how much we're going to charge for a treatment. Look, those things are  really important, but this is going to be a 44 billion dollar market worldwide in  five years. There's plenty to go around. This is what we believe at the Aesthetic  Blueprint and if you believe what we believe, then I invite you to join the  movement and come to the Immersion Seminar in Newport Beach in October. Come  not just to improve your clinical skills, but embrace the movement to  provide life transformation to each and every patient that seeks your help. I  most sincerely invite you to join us in Newport Beach for a really special kind  of learning experience through the Aesthetic Blueprint. Come to the Aesthetic  Blueprint, but only come if you truly believe that you can help change people's  lives. And by the way, if you agree with me, I would love for you to send me a  note so I can hear from you. This is Bob Rouleau. I'll see you in October. I'm out.  Good book, by the way. 