 Okay. Guys, can we start the session? Am I audible to all of you? Okay. Guys,  am I audible to all of you? Can we start the session? Is the voices loud and clear?  Okay. All right, guys. Any questions from previous discussion yesterday,  from whatever we have discussed? If not, we can, we can discuss the question paper. Okay.  Okay. So, we will discuss the question paper, guys. Just give me one minute.  Okay. Guys, I hope all of you can see the screen here. So, we are with the question paper. We will  discuss the first one, paper one. So, I hope all of you know the structure, right? So,  you will be getting total, how many questions? Here, just one minute. Okay, guys, I will just  explain the question paper pattern and then we will go with the question paper. Okay. So,  you will be, we are going to discuss the paper one. So, here you will have, there are two parts,  part A and part B. And here you will have 1, 2, 3, 4 questions. Here also, you will have 1, 2,  3, 4, like that 5, 6, 7, 8. So, there are total 8 questions which are given to you, out of which  the first one here and the fifth one, that means the first one and the second part, these two are  compulsory, which you do not have any choice. So, in that, you will get around 5 questions,  right? A, B, C, D, E, there will be 5 questions here. A, B, C, D, E, there will be 5 questions  here. So, 10 questions from the first and the fifth are compulsory. That means that is going  to fetch you around 100 mark. Now, the rest of the 150, that means how much is done? 100 is done  out of 250. That means it is actually 2 out of 5. So, 2 out of 5 is done. We have to attempt  totally 5 questions, out of which 1, 2 is done. Now, when it comes to the other, we have 3 here  and we have 3 here. You have to select 3 from the 6, but you cannot select all the 3 from here,  all the 3 from here. Guys, I will tell you one thing, if you see most of the question papers,  this section, section A, the part A will be mostly known to you because we give a lot of importance  to the first 3 chapters, stratification and thinkers. So, mostly section A will come from  this area, first 3 chapter, stratification, thinker. That is what actually you are going to  get there. So, if you look even in this paper also, maybe you will find that thing, the first  section, all the 3 may be known to you. But we can maximum select 2 from this, that is something  which is your choice, 2, 3, 4 or 3, 4 or 2, 4 or whatever it is, maximum 2 or 1 also. And then  you need to select 1 again or 2 from this side as well. So, total 3 you need to select from 6,  condition is maximum is 2 from 1 section. That means minimum 1 need to be selected from each  of the section. So, you do not have any choice with respect to 1 and 5, you have choice with  respect to the other 6. Out of the 6, you have to select 3. So, you cannot select all the 3 from  here, nor all the 3 from here, at least 1 from each section need to be there. That means the  maximum you can take from 1 section is 2. Now, why I told you that because anyway, you will  come to know when you write the paper or by mistake, some people will directly go with that  also because you will see that the first section will be mostly known to you because direct  questions from thinkers and concepts they will ask you. But when it comes to this area,  they may ask you some kind of application. So, that will be somewhat generic in nature. It may  be general and you may feel that it will be always better to write something which is very specific.  Now, when you select the answer, what you need to focus maximum is try to pick from this because  this is going to be very scoring 1, 2, 3 that chapters and thinkers. Wherever you find questions  from thinkers, you have to jump on it. You have to make sure that you are going to attempt that.  That is something which you need to keep in mind. So, keeping all these things in mind,  let us look into the question paper and we will see. I will tell you what questions I will select  and I will tell you the reasons also. And I am not going to answer the questions here. I will  tell you the risk, where you would have find it. It is there in our course, everything.  All the questions have been actually done and it is there in your video sections and everything.  I will just show you where you can get it. So, guys, you can see from the first chapter itself,  how many topics you have. You have three topics, one related to modernity, the other related to  common sense and the other related to the scope and comparison. You can see all the three have  been asked in this paper. And that makes it very simple as well. Paper 1, chapter 1, obviously,  everybody will prepare in depth. And we have also done that. So, if you look into the questions,  I do not have any choice with respect to 1st and 5th. Guys, so whenever I see the question paper,  I am not interested in looking into the 1st and 5th at the first moment. First thing, what I need  to do is I have to select my choices. Within 1 or 2 minutes, I have to do that. So, 1 and 5,  I am not going to look into. But 1 and 5, blindly, I will start writing once I have selected my  choices. And one more thing that I want to tell you is, you will see 20 markers here. So,  20 markers, I will give least priority, I will always write towards the end. The logic is,  it is very easy for you to score good in 10 marker. It is very easy for you to get 6 to  7 mark. If you see 6 to 7 mark, even when you are writing the test also, you will come to know.  It is very easy to get 6 to 7 mark in your 10 marker question because you need to write very  less. And whatever you write, you can write it in a very good way also. You can present also  very good way. But when you start writing the 20 marker, even though you have the content and  knowledge, things will go out of your hand. So, it will not be as easy to present as this one.  So, even if you have the content like 10 marker, you will maximum, maximum you will get like 12  mark. So, here you will be getting around 70 percent. If you take it into percentage level,  here you are getting up to 70 percent and you have 13 questions of 10 mark. So, I always give  importance to this 13 questions of 10 mark. The 13 question means the first one and the fifth one.  So, 10 is covered. And the 3 choices that we are taking, in that also, you will find 1, 1, 1 in  each of that. I will go into that 10 markers as well. I will try to complete these 10 markers.  So, this 13 questions is my priority in the first half an hour. So, 250 mark, out of which,  first half an hour or even a 10 minute more if I give, it is okay for me because this is going to  be very highly scoring. And make sure, see if you are going to get it, you will be getting up to 91  also here, if you are getting 7 mark. Or say anywhere between 72 to 91 you will get. 6 to 7  if you are targeting. That is very easy to get. Now, if you have this mark, then it is very easy,  rest of the 6 questions which you need to attempt, that will be of 120 mark. Even if I get just 50  percent from this. If I give focus on the 10 markers, it is very easy for me to score good.  And even if I am just trying to get 60 percent or 50, 60 is very good. And if I am getting 50 percent,  60, then I am going to get around 150 mark in total. So, that means 150 plus 150, you can  easily score 300 plus. So, this is going to be your approach. Obviously, university level, you will  start writing 20 markers, but there is no logic in writing 20 markers when it comes to this example.  Always write the one which is very less to write and very scoring as well. So, 10 markers, always  try to complete first. The first, as soon as you start writing, first 5 you complete, and then  complete the other 5. Then each of the choice also there will be 10 markers. Complete that,  then come to the 20 marker. But again, there will be individual preferences, you will have your  plans and everything. But I am just telling you a standard plan, which can be followed when you  are writing the paper. This is going to be very effective, because if you look into math, math  level also this is going to be very, very useful. So, let us look into the choices. I will come to  this 5 markers, all are very simple, or even we can look into the 5 markers also, all are very  simple only. So, let us select the 3, that is what we need to do. From the, let us look into this,  from the viewpoint of growing importance of multidisciplinarity, how you relate sociology  with other social sciences. So, we have discussed about this in detail, multidisciplinarity and  how sociology is related to other social sciences. Time and again, many places with the thinkers  help, we have explained. When I talk about division of labor, I have told you how something  which was related to economy became part of sociology, once Durkheim take up the analysis.  So, economics and sociology, you can discuss a comparison. Then with respect to Marx also,  we have discussed. And then political science, you can connect with Marxian analysis. The chapter  on politics and society, you can connect. So, anthropology, you can write, and philosophy,  you can write, psychology, you can write. You can even bring in a theory of suicide by Durkheim,  something which is related to psychology, have become part of sociology. Weber s approach,  individual, psychology approach. And the Mead s approach, that is again related to psycho. So,  you have enough and more content from the thinker s side, as well as the other dimensions also,  which you can capture here. This is going to be very good, you will have more content. So,  okay, I don t have any problem with that. I have not selected, because I need to know all the three  in that particular question. Second, how far sociology is justified in using positivist  approach to understand social reality? Explain with suitable illustration. A very easy question,  you are talking about positivism, you need to talk about what is positivism, what are the,  who are the positivists? Start from Auguste Comte, Simon, Herbert Spencer, Durkheim, Durkheim  approaches and illustrations, you have a lot of studies. So, will I face any problem with respect  to this? No. And then sociology, how is it related to common sense? Guys, you see the first question  related to modernity, I will come to that. Now, this is related to the second topic, this is  related to the third topic. First chapter itself, they have asked all the three. And then this is  from the second chapter, that is positivism. Non-positivism also is there. So, how easy this  paper will be, we will discuss this. So, I will definitely going for this question.  Then, how do qualitative and quantitative methods supplement each other in sociological inquiry?  So, in fact, if you remember, whatever we have discussed towards the conclusion,  we are telling the same thing only. If you look into that PDF, I will just, if possible,  I will just show you also. We are talking about the same conclusion. It should not be seen  as something which is dichotomous or extremes. Both need to be used together  and both are supplementing, both are complementary rather than contradictory.  So, this is exactly what we have discussed. The same line is what they have picked up and  asked here. So, we have discussed about what is quantitative, what is qualitative,  there are examples and everything you can discuss about the methods and then the comparison and  everything and we are discussing this as complementary. That means supplement each  other rather than contradictory. Exactly the same language is what we have actually discussed. So,  that is okay for me and that too very good one, 20 marker. I am going to get a lot of  content here. I do not have any problem. Critically examine the dialectics involved  in each mode of production as propounded by Marx. Marx theory of historical materialism,  mode of production we have discussed. We also discussed about dialectical materialism,  what exactly dialectical materialism is about, what is dialectical idealism, how have Marx  modified over that and have taken it to materialism, that you can explain. And each  mode of production, what is that contradiction in ancient, what is the contradiction in feudal,  what is the contradiction in capitalism and how these are going to be solved, etc. We have  completely done. Most importantly, there is a question from thinkers and that too of 20 marks,  so I will definitely think of this. Next one also from thinker Max Weber s idea of bureaucracy.  Direct one, whether it is going to be exactly the same way, the criticism, iron cage of rationality,  I have discussed it and you can again see that in the course section itself.  Same, so I will definitely go for this as well. That is why guys I have told you, if you see the  first section, everything will be known to you because these will be from first three chapters  and stratification and thinkers. Next, again if you look into this from stratification,  explain the concept of mobility, describe suitable illustration, how education and social mobility  are related. You know what is mobility, you know the sources of mobility, you know the causes of  mobility, you know the types of mobility and how education as a cause or the source of mobility or  avenue of mobility, we discussed that. Hindrances as well we discussed. How has the idea of work  from home forced us to redefine formal and informal organization of work? Guys, we have discussed about  formal and informal organization of work, but this is something which they have asked in connection  with the contemporary setup. So here, something you need to add from your side. At the same time,  this is of 20 mark and I do not want to do this. But just because of, because I have better options,  I can only write two from this section and the first two which I got itself was very good for me.  There is no problem with respect to this question actually. I know what is formal, informal and  everything is there, we have discussed it. You know that by the time you write the exam, you  will be clear about this. But this one is something which I need to incorporate something  from my side. So why I need to do that when I have something very specific and thinkers are there.  Next one, if you see with suitable examples, explain the conformity and deviance co-exist in  society as propounded by Merton. Conformity and deviance co-exist. We have discussed about,  if you remember, we did, yesterday also we did. Scientists, see directly in terms of  manifest function. If you see manifestly, a scientist seems to be a conformist.  But at the same time, he is a deviant structurally in terms of unintended consequences.  So both co-exist. Similarly, I have given you the example of a teacher. I have given you the  example of a bureaucrat and all those things. You can write the theory of anomie, you can discuss  about the various combinations and then you can discuss about these examples, especially scientists.  And if you remember, I have given this word. So this person seems to be a conformist. We never  think that he has a deviant. We can never imagine that. So someone who seems to be a conformist,  that means manifestly a conformist, you have to use these words, but structurally deviant  in terms of unintended consequences. So we discussed about manifest latent, we discussed  about the structural aspect and all those things. So I don't have any problem with any of these  three, but still, this is of 20 mark. If it was 10 mark, I would have considered. Let's suppose  this, guys, if I would have got this as 20 and this as 10, then this is also very okay for me  because social mobility is very easy one. I have a lot of content to write, then I will be  confused. I have to select again two from this, I will be very much confused. But just now all  these things have to be looked into. This is 20 mark, that makes me slightly worried  or not logical for me to attend because I have better tools. So which one I will go for?  I will definitely go for this because this is having the first chapter impact. I am very good  in that. And then obviously you will also be very good in that. And then this one,  we have Marx here, and then we have Weber here, two thinkers I got. Quantitative, qualitative,  I have a lot of things to write. So Q3, this one would definitely go, definitely I will go.  In case if this was of 20 mark and this was of 10 mark, I will be confused between 2 and 4.  But still, I will have to see the cost benefit analysis and I have to decide upon that. So  two questions I have selected, question number 3 and 4. Guys, I was not aware the video was not  there. Now, I am not looking into the 5 because this is compulsory for me.  We need to select one. So elucidate the main problems and challenges faced by migrant laborers  in the recent lockdown period. Direct one, there is nothing much to discuss here.  Explain the political parties and pressure group are dialectically related to each other in terms  of achieving their goals. So this is also direct from the syllabus only, pressure group and  political parties directly there in the classes. We have discussed about this. So we will have to  get it from there. And then give your comments on growth of religious revivalism. I do not know how  many of you were attending the last batch who are present here. I have stressed upon this one,  religious revivalism. Very, very important topic and I have discussed it multiple number of times,  this particular concept of religious revivalism. So those who have attended,  they might be remembering this term as well because I have discussed about secularism,  revivalism, communalism, fundamentalism, sect and cult, these 5 together. So this is also going to  be very important. This is somewhat general in nature, but these 2 are very clear from the  syllabus. I will hold on. I will just see whether I can get something better.  Explain how the pattern of patriarchy is being altered in a family  and at the level of workplace in the present context. So guys, always,  I used to explain when I talk about patriarchy, I always explain public patriarchy and private  patriarchy. Private means at the level of family, public means at the level of society. And then  also I will explain manifest and latent concepts. So this is a very direct one, direct one, nothing  to worry. It is there in the, I will show you everything. I will further discuss and I will  show you everything in the portal. Then critically examine the contribution of dependency theory,  chapter on social change, direct question in the present global scenario, direct question only.  Explain the growing salience of ethnicity in the contemporary world with examples. This is  directly from stratification. We are discussing about ethnicity over there and also more we have  discussed about ethnicity in paper 2 when it comes to ethnic movement and all. So I am very  comfortable with this one than the first one because first one, somewhat general one I got  in 20 mark, but here I am getting very specific. Everything which is patriarchy is a very favorite  topic for most of the examiner. At the same time, I will be able to express myself well.  Guys, anything related to women, you can market it very well. Women and Gandhi,  if you get it in exam, if you are good in that, you can market it very well.  So this is something which essay also, if you are getting these questions,  you should jump onto it if you have content, provided you should know how to market them  properly. So I have done with this. Now let us look into the next one also. Discuss the changing  nature of kinship relations in the contemporary world. Family, direct question. Describe the role  of science and technology in enabling face to face, face the challenges triggered by COVID-19,  science and technology and social change. But they have asked in COVID-19 situation. We can  write it, this is a very simple one only. Highlight the roles and function of civil society. This is  also like a political party, pressure group, civil society. These are topic coming from  chapter on politics and society. So this is also direct one. But I do not want to look into this,  I am okay with this one. So what are the questions I have selected? I have selected question number  two, I have selected question number three, and I have selected question number seven. So these are  the three questions that I am going to answer. Apart from that, the first and the fifth is  without choice. Now let us look into these questions. Europe was the first and the only  place where modernity emerged. So we cannot see anything only. Whenever you find only,  that is not actually desirable. So we will also discuss about yes, modernity emerged in Europe,  but it has permeated through each and every other areas as well. At the same time,  when we discuss about modernity, we also discuss about the intellectual background.  And it is not only from Europe, it is coming out from different other areas as well. And guys,  this one I have explained, we have done with modernity, social change in the chapter on  emergence of sociology. So here we have covered that. But the exact answer for this question,  you will get it in this module. If you see here, there is around 42 pages. Here we have discussed  all the possible questions from the first two chapters. So this one, if you see, you will get  intellectual background and everything. So here, in fact, that particular question, direct answers  are actually covered over there. Second one, do you think ethnomethodology helps us in getting  reliable and valid data? Justify your answer. So we need to first talk about positivism, you know  that, and you need to discuss about ethnomethodology. And one of the criticism of ethno,  this is where, in ethno, this is where non-positivism we have discussed. So non-positivist  methodology, non-positivism. And here, you can see, we have discussed about ethnomethodology.  And I will just show you one of the criticism we have discussed this, right here. In fact,  one of the criticism that we have discussed this, it will give various conclusions, various outcome  in different research. So reliability and validity is actually a challenge. But how to  achieve it? There are methods and that you need to discuss, proper training of investigator and  everything. So guys, both sides of the question need to be answered over here.  Discuss the challenges involved in collecting data through census method. We can discuss that  directly here. In fact, that I have covered here in this answer writing module. This module I have  given, guys, everything. If you see C2, so here again another 42 pages. So here, this topic and  the data collection and everything is coming here.  Okay, so the data collection and everything is coming here. Apart from that, here I have discussed  about the techniques of data collection. All the, this one, here the method is given here,  research methods. And here, I have discussed about that. The survey method you can talk about along  with the census. And then explain whether Durkheim theory of division of labor is relevant in the  present day context. We have discussed about this only how it is relevant in the present day  context. Even Durkheim also talking about that. What is that conclusion? I am not discussing the  theory entirely here. We are just discussing that core point. What is that in the present society  which is based on heterogeneity, which is based on individualism, which is based on organic  solidarity, which is based on aspirational. A modern society, people are connected because  of division of labor. Because we seek in others what we lack in ourselves. And associations are  formed wherever there is a true exchange of service. So there is a core point we have discussed  and stress on that at the same time. It is giving individual much required autonomy to produce. So  all these are the functions that we have discussed. So write it properly. You are going to get very  good score in that. Discuss organic solidarity in detail over there. Critically examine Max Weber s  theory of social stratification. So this is where we have discussed about this. Weber on  stratification. In fact, Weber on stratification what is discussing is there will be class, status  and power. So Marx is only talking about class. So that is one dimension of stratification. There  may be different other dimension of stratification. So there exists a multidimensionality,  multidimensional pattern of stratification. So you have to look upon the multidimensional  pattern of stratification and Weber gave this multidimensional concept of stratification.  So any problem with any of the five questions? Absolutely no. Very easy. And then we have  decided to go with this. From the viewpoint of growing importance of multidisciplinarity,  how do you relate sociology with other social sciences? So directly things are given here.  Just compare it. I do not want to discuss it now. So this is a comparison  with other social sciences and this is the notes which is given to you.  Okay, so that is done. You can also use the thinkers that we have discussed in between the  class. Many discussions have been done on that particular topic. Like if you, if you are writing  about economics, you should definitely talk about division of labor. How Durkheim have analyzed  division of labor, something which was economic related, it become, how it becomes sociology  related. So you need to talk about the theory of suicide by Durkheim. How something which was  psychology related becomes sociology, when you discuss about psychology. You can also discuss  about religion, something which is related to philosophy, how it become part of sociology.  You can also discuss about Weber's approach when you discuss about psychology. Because Weber's  approach is a kind of psychological approach. Individuals, meanings, motives, emotions, etc.  At the same time, you can also discuss about Mead. His approach is also related to,  in fact, he is a socio-psychologist. There is a direct connection.  Okay, Marx you should definitely discuss about when you discuss about political science,  when you discuss about philosophy, when you discuss about economy. Marx is coming everywhere.  Alright guys, so if you have this much strength in thinkers, then will you face this, do you even  want anything from here, this side? No, right? I do not think. How far sociologists justified in  using positivist approach to understand reality? Direct here, we have discussed  positivism and its critique. So we discussed about August Comte, we discussed about Simon,  we discussed about Durkheim. So everything related to positivism, the elements of positivism.  What to study external reality, empirical reality, and then make universal theory,  use scientific methods, establish cause and effect, and then objectivity need to be ensured,  testing, theory building, prediction, all those things we have discussed. And we have discussed  a lot of illustrations and examples with respect to Durkheim itself. You can use any of the theories  and the criticism also. Our sociology related to common sense.  Sociology and common sense. So here you will get it.  So that question is also answered. Guys, this is a very good one and I should be getting very  good score in this. I should not face any problem in this particular question as well.  So I am done with that. Now I am going with this three. So how do qualitative and quantitative  methods supplement each other in sociological inquiry? So this is where we discussed about.  Guys, even though I have covered everything in the chapters, you should never miss this module.  This is the most important module in my opinion, this one, where I have discussed everything given  in C1, C2 and their questions. See, you will not find anything beyond these questions which I have  given to you. Sociology, common sense, sociology, economics, all the possible questions from first  two chapters. And then you can see C1, C2. Like this is thinkers. So  just thinkers itself, guys, this is what I have told you. Thinkers itself,  how many questions have been given to you? 114 questions. How many thinkers you have?  Six thinkers. How many theories you have? Even if you multiply on average with three,  18, 20 theories you have. So these are the possible questions. And trust me, beyond this,  they will never ask you anything. They cannot ask you. Anyone can ever ask whatever questions  possible is covered over here. Just look into these questions and try to cover it.  Even if you remember anticipatory socialization, yesterday I have discussed about this.  So we are talking about quantitative and qualitative. Now coming to that,  this one. So here you will find quantitative and qualitative, the lecture, you can watch. We have  done with that already. And exactly what they have asked here, how they supplement each other.  This is what I always tell you, you have to write it in this way, rather than contradictory,  they are complementing each other. These are mutually responsive or mutually supportive.  So although they are based on opposite theoretical assumptions, but while comparing both the  relationship between the two is understood to be complementary rather than contradictory.  Guys, do not tell sociology is difficult after this.  Critically examine the dialectics involved in each mode of production as propounded by Karl Marx.  So what do you do here? So here is where we discussed about  Marx s theory of historical materialism. At the same time, you will get more content from  here. Here, this one, dialectical materialism also. So take dialectical materialism concept  from here and combine it with the dialectics involved in each mode of production, which you  learn from historical materialism as well. Anyway, this you do not have any confusion,  I am sure about that. Then Weber s idea of bureaucracy, which chapter it is?  Authority and bureaucracy. So here you will find that authority and bureaucracy I have discussed  over here. I have also discussed about bureaucracy in the chapter on politics and society. So  I think you will find it in that chapter as well.  Yeah, here also you will find the discussion on bureaucracy.  So we are done with that question. Now guys, question number four, we are not attempting  here, but I will just show you where you get the resources.  Explain the concept of social mobility, education and social mobility. So here you will get it.  So we have covered over there, so social mobility. And within that we have discussed about how  education related to social mobility and everything. And that you can also combine  it with the chapter on social change towards the end, education and social change I have discussed.  So how education is an agent of social mobility I have discussed in depth,  chapter on social change. I do not know, we need to go far down.  Yeah, here, if you look into this, education and social change, you will, guys, it is not that  from one, you will find one answer here exactly like that. You will have to, whatever you learn  from the other areas also need to be connected. So this also anyway is connected with social  mobility only. That we have done. And then work from home, formal and informal organization of  work. So we have not discussed specifically work from home thing, but we have definitely discussed  about formal, because that is what they are in the syllabus. So you will find that in formal  and informal organization of work here as a lecture. So even though we are not attempting  this, but it is just because we are, we are not comfortable with this one. Guys, everybody is  comfortable and we know work from home and many of you work from home and you know everything about  that. But still, I am not comfortable it is because 20 mark. If it was, if it was like this,  then I am very much happy with that. If I would have got this Merton it with 20 mark, like  this Merton with suitable example how conformity deviance coexist in society as propounded by  Merton. Let us look into that. Robert Merton. So this is reference, theory of anomie. So here,  yeah, you will find the theory of anomie.  Can I see here guys? Even a ritualist is a conformist to the same way. I have explained  it in detail so that you can relate it. Yesterday only we, I think we have done this.  At the same time, towards the end also, we have mentioned about this.  A scientist intend to benefit society, but in terms of unintended consequences is a deviant.  So I have told this point clearly. Manifestly, he is a conformist, but in terms of unintended  consequences, he is a deviant structurally. Similarly, a bureaucrat and a teacher. So this  is why, this is how both coexist. Same person can be, even the drug addict case also I have told you.  He is also a kind of conformist because maximum harm done by him is to himself.  So guys, any problem with this also? This is what I have told you. First section,  you will never find any problem. Direct only. Second section, in fact, is going to be easy  for anyone. Whether you are a sociology student or not, you will be able to answer it. Second  section. So now let us look into these questions. Explain the emerging challenges in gender equality  in the informal sector. So we have discussed about informal sector already. And then we have  also discussed about chapter on stratification. So contents from there you need to take. So  gender and everything we have discussed over there.  This is dimensions of stratification. That is where we discussed about gender inequality and  everything. At the same time, you have to take from other areas as well. Informal sector also.  Critically examine Wilfred Pareto s theory of circulation of elite in the present scenario.  That is discussed in this chapter, Politics and Society, the first  part. That is where the theories comes. Theories of power. Here discussed about  Parsons concept of power, Weber s concept of power, the variable sum concept and the  constant sum concept in the Wilfred Pareto. Every concepts of power is actually discussed over there.  Critically compare views of Taylor and Max Muller s on religion. That is something which normally  people would not do. But here I think in theories of religion, I have briefly mentioned but not in  depth. Mainly we have discussed about Weber, Durkheim and Marx. But Taylor we just mentioned  about that. What is cult? Guys, this, I do not know how many, if someone is attending from the  last session, this again I have told this point. Alternate here, they used to ask this question,  sect, cult, religion, continuum. So, I always emphasis on this and religious revivalism,  I have taken it together on the same day. So, that is why, always I do like that only.  So, growth of, the reasons for growth of cult in the contemporary world, everything. So, here  it comes, the same chapter itself. See, as I have told you, I have taken this religious revivalism,  secularism, fundamentalism, everything together. Communalism, where is sect and,  yeah here it is, sect and cult is coming here. Very, very important topic. Do you think Talcott  Parsons gave an adequate explanation of social change? Any confusion here guys? We discussed  about what cybernetic hierarchy of control, we discussed about moving equilibrium. So,  when we discussed about cybernetic hierarchy of control, I have told you that there will be action  system and there is a flow in terms of energy and information and that flow should be there,  it should be managed. If there is any break in the flow, this is what we have explained. If there is  any break in the flow, there will be a disturbance. So, how the disturbance came? When there is a  break in the flow and how this disturbance will be solved? Through this moving equilibrium. So,  you need to explain social change by using these two. So, this is the concept of social change,  whether it is adequate or not, we have to take a stand and we need to explain, inadequate or  whether it is adequate or whatever it is. So, it is a pretty simple question. So,  every question in this section is very, very easy. I do not find any problem with any of the choices,  maybe. No, I do not find anything as a problem.  Okay, now we are going to look into this one. This is what we are going to answer.  So, explain the pattern of patriarchy and a patriarchy is being altered in a family  and at the workplace in the present society. So, guys, it will be, it has been discussed already.  So, here you can see this one, patriarchy and sexual division of labor.  And some of you will not find PDF here. The PDF of this lecture, this is actually the lecture,  right? Yeah, the PDF of this lecture is actually given in. So, some will come like that only,  guys, here. Because you have another topic in the paper 2 related to patriarchy, violence against  women and women movement. I am connecting all the three together. So, something is coming in  your paper 1 and I am connecting also it with paper 2 topics. So, that is why one of the PDF  is attached like this. So, some will come like that. The PDF will come somewhere here  in women movement or before that.  So, here it is, patriarchy, the details. So, what is patriarchy? Everything, right? Within family.  So, this is what they are asking, right? And then the wider society. Yes or no? Are they  asking the same or no? Or different? What they are asking, guys? What is the question? Yes,  this is what, right? Exactly same. Is there any difference here? Family and workplace,  means society only. It is public and private patriarchy. Is it the same that we have discussed  here within family and outside level? Pattern of patriarchy observed at two levels and the  details have been given here. Examples have been given here. Critically examine the contribution  of dependency theories in the present global scenario. Dependency theory will come in the  chapter on social change.  So,  social change.  Yes, social changes. So, here is where I have discussed about dependency theories.  Yeah, linear theories, dependency theories will come here, guys.  Here is where I have discussed about cyclical theories.  Development dependency related to this only. Dependency theories will come.  Who are they? Mainly, Andre-Gundrith Frank  and Immanuel Wallerstein, World System Theory. These are dependency theorists.  So, that is actually, though I have not mentioned the name dependency theories,  theories of social change. Social change means it is a theory of social change.  All the theories are there. Linear theories are there. Cyclical theories are there. Dependency  theories are there. Marx theory is there. Weber theory is there. Durkheim theory is there. Parsons  theory is there. Everything. That is what in the beginning we have just mentioned about that.  Marx theory, anyway you know. Historical materialism only. Marx you know. Durkheim you know.  Organic-mechanic solidarity. Parsons you know. We just mentioned now cybernetic hierarchy of  control and moving equilibrium. Weber, protestant ethic and spirit of capitalism. Hegelian dialectics,  easy. Growing salience of ethnicity. Guys, ethnicity I have discussed in the chapter  on stratification. That is one thing. That is the various dimensions of ethnicity.  At the same time, I have discussed about that in the chapter on social movement.  Here if you see, ethnic movement. Here you will get more details with respect to ethnicity. So,  you will get more content to write that. At the same time, at the same time if you look into this,  I forgot to, each of these questions which has been asked, the same direct question has been given  because I have given that many number of questions. If you anyway go with these  areas, you will find it directly. So, what was that we were discussing now? Ethnicity.  We were trying to find out this one before, the methods. So, I just missed it at that point of  time. So, these are the different methods guys. In that survey method, the census method. But  I have given another PDF also from the class, but this is from the questions. Here it is more,  64 pages is there, which is much more detailed.  I think this is chapter 3 only. So, let us look into chapter 4.  Here is where, yeah, here is where you will get that ethnicity related things.  This is mobility related aspects. So, guys, these are from the question answers,  which has been given to you. This is most important. Though you take, whether you take  printout or not, it is okay. But go with one reading at least. Everything was covered here.  Even if you find something was missing in the actual lectures, but things are covered here.  I have to go a lot of 62 pages are there. It is there anyway. Ethnicity, definitely it will be  there. Because gender, that question, this is a direct question. I have shown you that chapter  on stratification. But at the same time, you will get direct here. And so, this is a direct  answer. There is nothing more. For the thinkers and the various studies, study by Brookings.  Direct answer, just cut, copy, paste. Ethnicity, here it is coming. Racism related here.  The next will be ethnicity.  Or I think I might have missed it. Yes, ethnicity, how is it socially constructed?  And everything is explained here. I think it comes from here.  Related to racism. Race and ethnicity together we have covered.  So, guys, it is like this only. If something is given in the actual class,  that is enough. If not, you can come here, you will find everything. So,  I have made sure, at least in paper 1, we have everything fixed. So, I have made very sure that  nothing was missed out from the syllabus, at least in paper 1. Paper 2, it is very difficult,  obviously. Ethnicity is something which is coming here also. You need to collect from different  areas. Yeah, it is there, guys. So, here it is. This is what I was looking for, but I am not sure  where in which page it is there. So, ethnicity definition is there. What you need to write,  everything is covered here. And I have encircled also, underlined also whatever is important for  you, whatever thinkers you need to add. So, there is a detailed explanation of ethnicity,  multi-ethnic populations and everything, migration.  All right, guys. So, again, some more is coming, social stratification and ethnicity is coming.  So, that is our same topic, different question.  Okay, I hope that is done. So, this question, will you be facing any problem? No, right? Now,  guys, all these are there in your syllabus, in the course material itself. Kinship relation,  how is it changing? I can find it here in the chapter on family.  Here it is there, kinship, family, all the details  has been given here. How is it changing and everything is there.  And this is science and technology and social change.  In the chapter on social change, it would have been, it will be there.  Education, science, technology and social change, just that the COVID situation you need to add in  that. Similarly, the next one, civil society also, like which one we have discussed here.  These are direct questions. There is political party directly from politics and society,  pressure group also, civil society also, religious revivalism, direct question again.  So, now, how do you feel, guys, after this discussion? Will you be facing? Now, how will  you answer these questions? So, as I have told you, first, I will go for this ABCDE. This I  will complete first. This is my objective. And then I have decided that I will be going with 2.  So, I will complete this one that is of 10 mark. And then I have decided that I will go for 3.  Because of that, I will complete this 10 mark. So, this 10 mark is done. Then I will complete  all of these 10 mark. And then I will go with this 10 mark. Only after that, I will come back to 20  mark. So, how many 20 mark are left out? 6 20 mark are left out, which is of 120. I am hardly  targeting, you know, 50 to 60 percent, anyway between 50 to 60 percent. Because 60 to 70 percent  I am targeting from 10 marker, which is very, very easy for me to get also. Guys, when you start  writing, you will understand. Maybe when I tell now, you may think that why I am not going  with 20 markers, what he is talking about and everything. But when you start writing, you will  understand. 10 marker, you can express yourself very well. You may think that very limited word,  but you cannot express. But when you start writing, it is going to be very easy for you to  write the 10 markers. Because whatever you know, just write it, complete it. It is over. But in  case of 20 marker, the content that you know, you need to manipulate a lot. And things may go out of  your hand at one point of time. That will not happen in 10 marker. So, that is the logic here.  And then it is all up to you, individual preference and individual, you will be practicing  the test series and everything. So, you will come to know. So, that is it guys from my side. Any  questions you have? Or we will stop here. See you tomorrow guys. Tomorrow, I will start with  the Indian thinkers. I will discuss about Gurye. And then day after tomorrow, Sachin, you gave the  mains this year? No, okay. It is a different test. Sorry. So, we will discuss about Gurye  tomorrow. And then Srinivas and A R Desai day after tomorrow. With that, we will complete  the thinkers portion. And then we will move forward. Okay, see you guys. 