 I've led six botany and foraging intensives, each one in a different place in a different season.  Hello, my name is Tom Elpel, the founder of Green University and the author of Botany in a Day,  the Patterns Method of Plant Identification.  The idea to teach a botany and foraging intensive  arose after publishing the book Foraging the Mountain West with co-author Chris Reed in 2014.  It was really a selfish idea because I wanted to travel and learn from other instructors across the West.  I co-hosted the first botany and foraging intensive with Kyle Chamberlain in Eastern Washington,  and the class was actually a full month long, and we toured parts of Washington and Idaho and Oregon.  I primarily taught the plant identification side of the course, while Kyle focused on the foraging and the ecology,  and we wove in some primitive skills as well.  Every year is different as we explore a new place in a new season and see what's out there.  More than just a class, there is a tribal aspect of living together in community and  traveling together on a botanical adventure. It was Kyle's genius that we also toured  gardens and orchards and permaculture farms that really set the pattern for the botany and foraging intensive ever since.  Kyle's homestead served as a base camp for the first week of the program as we did day trips out from there,  and it was a hot one with temperatures over 100 degrees every day.  Then we headed out on a road trip into the Snake River country of Idaho to see what else was out there.  The typical class format is that we'll spend about half a day doing plant identification,  where students gain proficiency in keying out plants with botany in a day.  The other half of the day will focus on  foraging, herbalism, primitive skills, or sustainable living and permaculture type tours.  And in this case, we visited my friend Don, who has a homestead deep in the Snake River country where  plums and apricots and blackberries grow wild all over the place, and he's got orchards of  peaches, a vineyard, even has some  figs and pawpaws growing in Idaho.  Everything is straight up and straight down in the Snake River country,  so we bounced back and forth between the hot bottomlands versus the cooler mountain country of the Snake.  Wherever we went, there was always something new to identify and something exciting and new to forage.  At one point, we even ran into a geology class and ultimately traded a botany lesson for a geology lesson.  We cooked lots of pies on the road, and at some point Susie picked up a roadkill bunny and cooked that too.  A big part of the class was harvesting as much wild and feral fruit as we could find along the way.  Kyle slept by the drying apricots to ward off any bears.  The apricots are so wild they get dispersed by bears. This is a some bear scat I found, and it's also a musical instrument.  After harvesting and drying an abundance of feral fruits, we ultimately migrated back to the mountains where we went on a little wilderness survival trek and we feasted on wild currants and gooseberries and huckleberries and some beautiful yampa roots.  More than just a class, we grew together as a tribe and built memories that we will never forget.  For our second botany and foraging intensive, we returned to eastern Washington and partnered with Kyle Chamberlain again,  this time to really focus on the spring root crops of the scablands of eastern Washington.  So in addition to our daily botanizing, focusing on plant identification, we really emphasized the harvesting of root crops, especially the big biscuit roots that thrive in the thin rocky soils that were created as a result of the Ice Age floods from Glacial Lake Missoula from 13 to 15,000 years ago.  Starchy root crops can be hard to come by in the wilderness, but here they are crazy abundant and can be harvested sustainably.  So in addition to the biscuit roots, we harvested some waterleaf, some yellowbell, some spring beauties, wild onions, yampa, all kinds of starchy spring roots.  More than anything, it was a thrill to be out celebrating the first flowers of spring, especially when it is still winter back in Montana, where I call home.  We put our plant identification skills to the test and enjoyed experimenting and cooking up wild starchy roots in every way that we could think to do it.  Spring unfolded before our very eyes as we went on numerous day hikes to get out and see what was popping.  Spending extended time in the field like this is a great way to develop proficiency with botany in a day and recognizing plant family patterns.  We even brought the canoes along to play with outside of class time. The experience also included a little impromptu flint knapping session.  Our third botany and foraging intensive started right here at my house in Pony, Montana. We spent the first few days in and around this area and then migrated eastward from here as we solidified the two week structure for the class.  Plant identification and foraging remains core to the class, of course, but we also did tours like touring Sage Mountain Center to see their buildings and gardens and practice keying out flowers there.  We also toured a local greenhouse as like an indoor tropical paradise.  And there always seems to be some meat component to the class, in this case, butchering a roadkill deer as instructed by the instructor.  In my book, Foraging the Mountain West, perfectly legal here in Montana and most of the western states, we harvested an abundance of gooseberries and Saskatoon's and did a tour of paradise permaculture in Livingston, Montana, as we worked our way eastward across the state.  We parked ourselves at Itch Capay Park in Columbus, Montana, for a few days to really process our Saskatoon's to make those into berry cakes and to dry those in the sun and on our day off from class, we decided to paddle the river for entertainment.  We also spent a day keying out flowers in the gardens at Zoo, Montana, which was actually the first time I'd ever been there.  That's one of the fun things about the class is traveling and exploring and visiting places that we might not see otherwise.  These first three botany and foraging intensives were all very small classes, mostly due to a lack of marketing on my part that I'm always depending on word of mouth for people to learn about the class and find their way to it.  We made a little bit of applesauce with apples we picked outside the zoo, also found some chuck cherries and some beautiful black currants.  South Central Montana is home to a little pocket of Utah-like landscape and even some Utah juniper plus some pygmy rabbits.  Plant identification is fun wherever we go, and there's always an aspect of wildlife observation as well.  We got caught out in a beautiful hailstorm one day, and another time we went out dumpster diving and came back with the motherlode of delicious strawberries all free.  For our first botany and foraging intensive in Colorado, I partnered with Brianna Wiles and Kat McKinnon, and this was our first really big class.  Thanks especially to Brianna's marketing that we had 20 students, which was 19 women and 10 men.  The women having signed up through Brianna and the guy having signed up through me, but we had a great big class and just really a fun tribe of people for this two-week adventure together.  This class featured a heavy emphasis on primitive skills as the students learned how to use their hands and how to use their hands to do things that they weren't able to do in the classroom.  But really, plant identification is what it's all about, and we really emphasize practice, practice, practice at keying out the flowers and getting to know those plant family patterns.  But really, plant identification is what it's all about, and we really emphasize practice, practice, practice at keying out the flowers and getting to know those plant family patterns.  This class also included a heavy emphasis on herbalism, led by Brianna and Kat.  We enjoyed three different campsites over the course of the two-week class, one on private land and two with permits on the National Forest, which really gave us a good cross-section of different habitats across western Colorado.  We called this really the kitchen sink of classes. Students were staying up finishing their projects by headlamp.  We had just thrown so many different types of things into this one program, but hey, it was a lot of fun.  Although people really sign up for either the plant identification or the herbalism or the foraging, it's actually, I think, the tribal component of it.  Being together with like-minded folks, doing these potluck dinners together, just kind of living as a tribe that is so meaningful in this day and age that is really perhaps the most powerful part of the two-week botany and forage intensive.  Students build relationships with each other that last far beyond the class itself.  For our fifth botany and foraging intensive, we started at my home here in Pony, Montana again, but this time we ultimately traveled northwest across the state,  which included a stop for a tour at Sage Mountain Center to check out the alternative buildings there and the gardens and greenhouse, and of course to do a lot of keying out of plants there.  We stayed at Lolo Hot Springs for a couple of days, and we were privileged to have Elaine Sheff from Greenpath Herbal School come in and teach herbalism.  We spent a couple days in the Missoula area, and then on our travel day north, students had the option of visiting the Garden of One Thousand Buddhas as well as the National Bison Range.  We camped out at Michael Billington's Permaculture Homestead near Polson, Montana, and we learned a lot about gardening and permaculture, some alternative construction,  and really a lot about the wild seed harvesting, the business of harvesting and selling wild seeds.  In addition to daily plant identification practice, we also did some really interesting garden tours here with mulch, both rock mulch and purslane as a living mulch in the garden.  We also toured alternative buildings at Wheaton Labs.  Our final stop of the two-week botany and foraging intensive was actually in Idaho, and we followed a scenic dirt road through the mountains to get there,  which was just incredibly beautiful, except we were ultimately thwarted by a landslide on the road and had to turn around and go all the way back, consuming an entire day in the process.  Keep in mind that we had 20 students and 20 vehicles in our caravan, but we did eventually make it to Idaho, where we visited Darcy Williamson and learned more about herbalism and greenhouses and a whole lot more.  Class officially ended there, but some of us afterwards went on a side tour up into the mountains and then into Hells Canyon to gather some wild fruits, both for drying and for canning, to stock the cellar to get through the winter.  We feasted on apricots, plums, blackberries, and mulberries.  For our sixth botany and foraging intensive, we returned once again to Colorado, this time partnering first of all with wild food girl Erica Davis,  and we camped at the Bristlecone View Ranch at 10,000 feet in elevation near Fair Play, Colorado.  One of our many foraging skills was to make our own mustard with wild mustard seed.  From there, we migrated south into the San Luis Valley, where we partnered with survival skills expert Robin Blankenship,  who right away took us out on a surprise event to skin a bison on a bison ranch and to tour the amazing buildings there.  For our day off, half the crew decided to tour Great Sand Dunes National Park, where we had a good time climbing these mammoth sand dunes,  and cooled off in the creek after a hot climb in the sun.  We also stopped at Colorado Gators Reptile Park and even bought a bunch of live tilapia that we brought back to camp for dinner.  We toured Robin Blankenship's straw bale home and homestead and thoroughly botanized the area.  Robin taught a friction fire class, emphasizing skills that optimize the procedure for women.  For me, one of the great highlights of the class was touring Nick Chambers' biogas plant, where he converted his septic tank to produce fuel for cooking.  We spent a whole week with Robin Blankenship at Earthnac School and did numerous field trips out from there.  Our final campsite was back at the Kevin Off Bison Ranch, where we enjoyed his whimsical architecture and found lots of great plants for plant identification practice.  We did a day trip out to Soul Mountain Farm, where we toured their greenhouses, got to learn about worm composting, saw their hog operation,  and got some hands-on experience making comfrey tea for fertilizer.  We enjoyed a final day in the mountains, polishing our plant identification skills.  The Botany and Foraging Intensive is a new adventure every year.  As we travel to new places and work with new instructors, it's always a great opportunity to hone your skills.  Come join us this year for the next Botany and Foraging Intensive. 