 ♪  ♪  ♪  ♪  ♪  ♪  ♪  ♪  Hi there, welcome to my studio and welcome to the Mastering Colour course.  I'm Richard, I've been a professional painter since 2001  and an art tutor for nearly as long as that.  I've been making these videos for the internet for a couple of years  and they've been doing really well.  Over 90,000 people have seen the videos so far around the world.  And I asked these people what was the main problem that they had with painting,  what was the biggest stumbling block?  And an amazing 72% said that colour was the biggest problem.  So if colour is your biggest problem then join the club, you're in good company.  So I thought, hey I know a bit about colour, I'll do a painting lesson on colour.  But it was only when I started trying to write down exactly what I knew about colour  that I realised just how little I did know  and how much I've been painting and doing my colour work instinctually.  So I started learning again.  I bought every colour book that I could get my hands on, every DVD.  I scoured the internet for months and months looking for the best online resources  and eventually I started teaching workshops where I used my guinea pig students  to test out my new information and my new teaching techniques.  And it was there that I really learned what was the best way to simplify this really complex subject  and help them learn it in a really practical way.  We had some great little paintings come out of those workshops  but what was really special to me was that moment when the light came on in their heads  and they began to understand what I was showing them.  You see once you gain understanding and control over colour  it completely turns it around from being a real worry to being an adventure and a real joy.  So some of the stuff we're going to cover in this course is colour theory,  seeing colour, describing colour, values, mixing colour, manipulating colour, colour harmony and light effects.  So hopefully by the end of this course you'll have saved yourself years of struggle  and have a real thorough understanding of colour and how to use it with real confidence in your paintings.  So let's get started with the history of colour theory.  I think it's important to know where we've come from in terms of our understanding of colour  so that we can see clearly where we are at the moment and know what discoveries led us to this point.  I don't want to bore you with the physics of light and everything  so I'll just give you a brief overview and make sure that you know roughly how it all works  so you don't go believing something like what Plato first hypothesised in his emanation theory  that an inner fire gives rise to visual rays shooting outward from the eye  interacting with the outer rays and thereby allowing objects to be seen.  Newton showed us in the 1700s that white light from our sun contains all the colours of the spectrum  the ones you can see in a rainbow plus a whole bunch of others that we can't see like ultraviolet and infrared.  He then noticed the similarity between red and violet at either end of the spectrum  and joined them together making a circle, the colour wheel as we know it.  This was the birth of modern colour theory.  That knowledge didn't become practically useful to artists until Michel Chevrelle  who managed the production of dyes for a French tapestry manufacturer  made the remarkable discovery that an intense dye colour  would produce the appearance of colour on surrounding neutral areas  and that this new perceived colour was almost directly opposite the original colour on Newton's colour wheel.  Let's have a look at this visual phenomenon.  Keep your eye in the middle of the orange square for the next 20 seconds.  You'll see when I remove the square that a blue afterimage is formed in your eye  and blue just happens to be the complementary colour of orange  meaning it's directly opposite orange on the colour wheel.  Again in France, the painter Eugène Delacroix used these new discoveries to further his realistic lighting effects  he learned things like red cloth has greener shadows  and the shadows of yellow objects have a tinge of violet in them.  In doing this he was able to break away from the classical dark backgrounds  and the dull tonal treatment of shadows  and introduce colour into shadows effectively making the whole painting more vibrant.  He was later reported to say that  I can paint the skin of a goddess with mud  provided you let me surround it with the right colours.  This is actually possible too.  If you surround a warm grey with a strong blue  it will actually resemble Caucasian flesh.  The Impressionists were inspired by Delacroix's discoveries  and aided by the invention of a wider range of more vibrant paints  sold in easily transportable tubes  they painted outdoors in search of a more meaningful expression of natural lighting colour.  Instead they tended to paint in a mid or high key  and add complements to their lighter shadows.  These artists included Manet, Renoir and Pissarro.  In London at the same time Joseph Turner was exploring bold colour and atmospheric effects  which also had an effect on the work of the Impressionists.  Meanwhile George Seurat developed a very technical approach to colour  a painstaking method called pointillism  which attempted to mix colours visually on the canvas rather than on the palette.  To make a green for example he would place a small stroke of blue beside one of yellow  so that from a distance the two colours combine in the eye  to create a more vibrant green than what can be achieved by mixing colour on a palette.  This is in fact how a modern four colour printing press works  by placing tiny dots of pure colour next to each other to create an image in the eye.  The process is just too taxing for most artists though  so pointillism as a movement didn't last for very long.  Post-Impressionists like Paul Gauguin and Van Gogh  learned the techniques of the Impressionists but began to use colour in a more emotional manner.  They were less concerned with the actual appearance of light and atmosphere  than with emphasising the beauty of pure colour and line in a fairly flat picture plane.  Van Gogh felt that colours had symbolic meaning.  To him yellow symbolised love and light, red and green conveyed passion and conflict  deep blue was the colour of spiritual rest and grey was associated with surrender.  Paul Cézanne's later work can be seen as one of the bridges  between the art of the 19th century and the 20th century.  He used colour almost as a chisel to shape objects  where he enjoyed the contrast of greyed colour with saturated colour.  He wrote,  When the colour achieves richness, the form attains its fullness also.  His work along with others inspired the Cubists, Expressionists and Fauves  who all used colour in an arbitrary fashion  no longer concerned with representing nature and her richness  but turning more to the inner world of the artist to draw inspiration from.  So Postmodernism was born  and a gap of some hundred years ensued until today  when we are seeing a resurgence in the academic popularity of representational art.  Over that time though there have been artists who have kept the flame alive  and passed it along to their own students  safeguarding the knowledge that was hard won over many years.  Some include Russian painter Sergei Bongart,  American Charles Hawthorne and Henry Hinch.  So through all these artists' efforts and many more  we now have a good understanding of what we can achieve with colour and painting.  We're standing on the top of a mountain of discoveries and achievements  and we're now in the enviable position of having the knowledge and technology  to achieve with paint a range and depth of colour expression  that was simply not possible in the past.  So the next chapters are going to walk you through discovering your own power with colour  so you too can climb up the mountain and see what the view is like from up there.  www.able.co.nz Copyright Able 2019 