 Introduction to Geometry, Level 1 Geometry is extremely useful for engineers,  architects, painters, carpenters, teachers, electricians, machinists, home builders, and  many more.  Geometric principles are important in the construction of buildings and roads, the design  and use of machinery, the creation of three-dimensional visuals and effects, and to better understand  and unlock the secrets of the universe itself.  Like any language and mathematics course, the important ideas in geometry must be developed  gradually with understanding, practice, and effort.  Alright, let's get started with the basics.  The simplest figure studied in geometry is called a point.  Although a point doesn't have any size, it is often represented by a dot, which does  have some size, but keep in mind that for the most part they do not have a size.  We use a dot to visually represent a figure that lacks size.  We usually name points by using capital letters.  For example, the following five points are called point A, point B, point C, point D,  and point E. All geometric figures consist of points.  Another familiar geometric figure is called a line.  Lines are made up of points and are straight.  The arrows on the end of the figures show that the lines extend infinitely far in both  directions.  They extend forever and ever.  Although a picture of a line has some thickness, the line itself has no measurable thickness,  so keep that in mind, unless it is explicitly stated, lines have no thickness.  The following figures are examples of lines.  There are two different ways we can name lines.  The first way is by using a single lower case letter, such as line M. The alternative way  to name lines is by using their points, for example, the line on the right contains the  points A and B, so we can call the line AB.  Using symbols we can denote it like this, AB with a line on top, or as follows, line  BA.  Both ways are acceptable, but for the most part we denote the letters in alphabetical  order, so AB will be the typical way to denote this line.  To talk about the next geometric figure we need to remember a concept learned in algebra  1.  In algebra you learn that a number line is formed when a numerical value is assigned  to each point on a line, for example the following line represents a number line, and point A  is located at negative 1, likewise point B is located at 1 and a half, or written another  way as 1.5.  We need to understand number lines in order to understand line segments, or simply segments.  Like lines, segments are made up of points and are straight.  What distinguishes them from lines is the fact that line segments have a definite beginning  and end, in other words they are measurable, they do not extend forever and ever in both  directions like lines do.  The following are examples of line segments.  The line segment on the left can be denoted as AB or segment BA.  Notice that we add a segment on top of the letters in order to distinguish it from that  of a line which contains arrows in both ends.  Also notice that a segment is named in terms of its two end points because a segment has  a definite beginning and end.  The figure in the middle contains two line segments, the vertical up and down segment  can be called RS or segment SR, once again we usually denote them in alphabetical order.  The horizontal crosswise or from left to right can be named as segment ST or segment TS.  In the following number line, the segment whose end point is located at the coordinate  of negative 1 and 1 is denoted as line segment BD or segment DB, likewise a segment that  has a coordinate at negative 2 and 2 is denoted as segment AE or segment EA.  So we learned about lines which extend forever and ever in both directions and we learned  about segments which have a definite length and do not go on forever and ever.  Is it possible to create a figure that contains both of these characteristics?  The answer is yes.  These hybrids are called rays.  Rays like lines and segments are made up of points and are straight.  A ray differs from a line or segment in that it begins at an end point and then extends  infinitely far in one direction only.  Segments extend in two directions, rays extend in one direction only, so make sure you keep  that in mind.  The following are examples of rays.  Now when it comes to denoting them, we actually need to be careful and make sure we start  denoting a ray by naming its end point first, this way it becomes clear where the ray begins.  So the ray in the left is denoted as ray AB, notice that we add a ray on top going from  left to right, this is the appropriate way to denote rays, it would be completely wrong  to denote the ray as ray BA, remember we want to start with the end point first.  The ray in the right can be called ray RS or ray RT, as long as the end point is given  first any other point on the ray can be used to denote the ray.  Now that we know about points, lines, segments and rays we can now talk about angles.  In essence an angle is made up of two rays with a common end point, this point is called  the vertex of the angle.  The rays are called sides of the angle.  There are various ways that angles can be described and denoted.  For example if we place the number 1 inside the angle near the vertex like this, we would  denote this angle as angle 1.  The symbol that we use to denote angles is drawn as follows, it's essentially a picture  of an angle.  If the angle only contains one letter in the vertex then you denote it as angle A.  When you denote the angle using one letter, make sure you name the point on the vertex.  An alternative way is needed if the angle is described in terms of three points.  For example if this angle has a vertex labeled as A and the other points are B and C respectively  then we need to denote the angle as follows, angle BAC or angle CAB, notice that when we  use three letters the vertex in this case A must be named in the middle, make sure you  always do this.  If we take the same angle and draw another ray from point A to point D we would end up  with three new angles, make sure you can see them.  The first angle is formed by points BAD and is denoted as angle BAD or angle DAB.  The second angle is denoted as angle DAC or angle CAD and the third angle is denoted as  angle BAC or angle CAB.  Notice that if we try to denote any of the angles by using only one letter such as angle  A we would be totally confused what angle we are referring to because all the angles  share the same vertex so in this case it is really convenient to use three letters to  name the angles.  Alright the final figure we will talk about is formed by using three segments and combining  them in the following way.  The figure that we just created is called a triangle and we denote it as follows, triangle  ABC or triangle ACB or triangle CBA or triangle CAB or triangle BAC or triangle BCA.  Notice that the letters need to start at one point and move either clockwise or counterclockwise  when denoting them.  The convenient way is once again by using letters that are in alphabetical order whenever  possible so triangle ABC would be the best way to describe this triangle.  Notice that a triangle has three segments as its sides.  Notice that there seems to be three angles but they contain no rays nevertheless this  figure contains three angles they are angle A, angle B, and angle C.  If you recall from your algebra class we often talked about sets, well it turns out we can  think of a triangle as being a union of three segments and can be denoted using set notation  as follows, triangle ABC is equal to segment AB union with segment BC union with segment  AC.  Likewise the intersection of any two segments or sides forms the vertex of a triangle and  can be denoted using set notation as follows, vertex A is equal to segment BA intersected  with segment AC, vertex B is equal to segment AB intersected with segment BC, and vertex  C is equal to segment AC intersected with segment CB.  Alright and there you have it, these are the basic building blocks of geometry and this  is only the beginning.  To recap we learned about points which have no sides but we draw a point to visually represent  them, we also learned about lines which contain points and extend infinitely in both directions  this is represented by the arrows that point in both directions, we also learned about  segments which have a definite length in other words they are measurable as a consequence  they have a beginning and an end which are called the end points of the segment, we also  learned about rays which share the characteristics of a line and a segment it contains an end  point in one side and contains an arrow in the other side which extends infinitely in  the direction it is facing, when we have two or more rays that share a common point called  a vertex we form angles, and finally when we connect three line segments together forming  three distinct vertex we create a triangle.  Ok make sure you are familiar with all these figures and the appropriate way to denote  and name them.  In our next video we will practice denoting and naming figures with various examples. 