 This episode is a special edition because it came from a very detailed and insightful  comment from the community.  Please subscribe and comment below and share your thoughts.  Here we go.  I am a clinical psychologist with 30 years of experience dealing with people.  I was branded a INFJ quite some time ago.  I never really accepted that evaluation because placing, labels, on people puts them into  a box.  It limits their potentiality and personal growth.  At worse, it can destroy an individual's self-determination and freedom.  I have never encountered a, classical, INFJ before.  Why?  Because certain characteristics of this personality type have many subgroups some of which overlap  other MBTI personality types.  That being said I will describe the characteristics of how an, orthodox, INFJ thinks, behaves  and responds in strict accordance with the MBTI personality test.  Before warned, I find some INFJ, stereotypes, rather funny.  And will approach such in a humorous fashion.  INFJs poses a wonderfully unique sense irony and will immediately recognize the silly,  stereotypes, others have attributed to them.  So, let's break some myths about INFJ personality types.  When a INFJ gives you the dreaded, death stare, they are not attempting to understand  you.  They are wondering if you're carrying a gun.  Killing INFJs is a pleasurable experience.  Why?  Because everyone hates a smart ass.  INFJs frequently experience, sensory overload, issues.  They love forests, parks and woodland areas to recharge their batteries.  Why?  Because trees don't talk.  A squirrel cannot complain it has, daddy issues.  Pine trees do not suffer from, gender identity, problems.  And I have never seen a bunny rabbit strung out crack cocaine.  Solitude is bliss.  Never say to an INFJ, I do not understand, they will run away screaming or jump in front  of a bus.  No one understands them.  INFJs sometimes don't even understand themselves.  Why do a INFJ, door slam, people?  Because it's called a coping mechanism.  They dislike being emotionally hurt.  There is nothing strange become alcoholics others pill poppers.  INFJs will just run away and pre you never existed.  It never works.  INFJs have the psychic ability to absorb people's emotions.  No!  This is phenomenon is called, transference.  If you continuously talk about your problems, a INFJ will unconsciously adopt some aspects  of your emotional state.  However, INFJs poses strong identities which prevents them from going completely insane.  INFJs are the most honest, compassionate and sensitive people on earth.  Not really.  Mother nature just screwed them up genetically.  Their brains are hard wired to respond during crisis situations.  A, diehard, INFJ will instinctively sacrifice their life attempting to save yours.  No questions asked.  Why?  I have no freaking idea.  I didn't invent the rules.  Ask God.  I'm sure she knows.  INFJs think differently than others.  Yes!  They think outside the box.  They live outside the box.  They have never actually seen the box.  What does it look like?  Does it contain groceries?  INFJ types are occasionally arrogant, cold towards others and aloof.  This is actually true.  Being omnipotent has its drawbacks.  INFJs have a difficult time sugar-coating the truth.  Being overtly honest is their trademark.  However, if they sense someone cannot handle the truth, they lie to protect that person's  feelings.  INFJs are stubborn yet will openly admit to errors in judgment and making mistakes.  INFJs think too deeply.  They want to solve everyone's problems.  They get frustrated when people ask for advice, then completely ignore their recommendations.  They do not understand why everyone keeps making the same mistakes over and over again.  Eventually, a INFJ will simply give up.  The phrase, people need to learn the hard way, was invented by an INFJ.  So was the, unfriend, button on Facebook.  INFJs do not respect authority because they have developed their own moral, ethical, spiritual  and cognitive belief systems.  Mature, older INFJs care very little about how people perceive them and less about the  impressions they make upon others.  INFJs enjoy approval and acceptance, like everyone else, but infrequently compromise  their principles to simply fit in.  Do not mistake a INFJ's confidence as egocentrism.  There is a difference.  INFJ hate themselves.  They feel alone within the world and misunderstood.  Making a INFJ a curse.  Consequently, a small minority INFJs often experience psychological depression, alienation  issues and avoidant behavior problems.  The phrase, you are your own worst enemy, accurately describes a INFJ's perception  of themselves.  The most admirable personality traits of the INFJ are.  1.  INFJs care more about other people than themselves which makes them an easy target for emotional  exploitation and abuse.  Never play, guilt games, with an INFJ.  They already persecute themselves, subconsciously, for being different.  They don't have the ability to forgive themselves for past mistakes.  INFJ's unforgiving, guilt complex, is an integral part of their personality.  INFJs have occasionally been known to slowly kill themselves over time, believing they  deserve such suffering.  Hell on earth, is their punishment, and they are willing accept it.  Sometimes.  Not always.  2.  Once you secure the trust of an INFJ, everything about them suddenly becomes clear.  The stereotypes vanish.  They are people you want within your life.  They have incredible insight into human nature and will identify your weaknesses and lift  you up from darkness.  Seeing the world through INFJ eyes is the greatest gift they can offer.  It would be impossible to understand a MBTI typology without stating the negative traits  of a specific personality group.  The, dark side, of a INFJ is rather frightening.  Never test their, authenticity, or personal dignity.  Do not play games with an INFJ.  They have limitations like everyone else.  A INFJ can determine your intentions or plans within minutes.  Literally.  This hyper-observant behavior is quite unique.  Avoid getting into heated arguments with a INFJ unless you are prepared to be intellectually,  emotionally or psychologically castrated.  They have cognitive resources almost beyond understanding.  A vindictive INFJ will never stop until they destroy your life, this has nothing to do  with physical murder.  Such behavior is almost psychopathic in nature, hence the concern INFJs may be categorized  as possessing a psychological disorder rather than a personality dysfunction.  INFJs are not prone violent behavior.  The good news is they give up easily, this is where the door slam or simply walking away  from an argument comes from.  If a INFJ loves you, be prepared for lengthy romantic rituals.  Boxes of candy, flowers, poems, lovely e-cards, teddy bears and such.  But be careful.  A INFJ understands how to manipulate situations to their advantage.  Including the human heart.  Once they reveal their true inner nature however, you will begin to understand why only 2% of  the world's population are INFJs.  They are just so damn charming.  INFJs dislikes small talk, idle conversations, superficial people and hypocrites.  Life is too short talking to such individuals but they understand it's occasionally necessary  to be socially accepted.  INFJs are not spontaneous.  They just pretend to be spontaneous.  Their minds are always attempting to connect the dots even when there are no dots.  Avoid getting into deep conversations with an INFJ.  They are walking encyclopedias.  They will jump from topic to topic then back again to support an idea or theory.  Male INFJs are, scattered brain, in the worst way possible.  But there is method to such madness.  They are searching for the correct answer to a specific problem.  And 95% of the time they will discover it, or have a complete nervous breakdown trying.  Occasionally, you will notice them acting rather mysterious, doing unusual things or  just behaving weird.  Get used to this behavior.  It has absolutely nothing to do with you.  The INFJ is just going through a, stage, or experimenting with something that interests  them.  Like building a thermonuclear bomb or discovering a cure for herpes.  Never tell a INFJ they possess an, old soul.  They are terrified of being reincarnated again.  INFJs are aware that neither heaven nor hell wants them.  Why?  Because God doesn't want the extra competition or deciding who should run the universe, him  or an INFJ, and Satan can't deal with a INFJ pestering him for all eternity.  That would be considered cruel and unusual punishment.  Aliens will never abduct an INFJ.  There are some things too bizarre even for extraterrestrials.  So next time you accidentally encounter an INFJ, break all COVID, social distancing,  issues and hug them.  They are an endangered species.  Literally.  Whatever purpose they were created for has already been accomplished.  I like to think they represent the noblest form of humanity.  A personality type which everyone aspires to emulate.  Intelligent, wise, caring, altruistic and protective.  That is all folks!  Please comment below and share your thoughts.  Don't forget to subscribe.  Thank you for being with us to the end.  You can be anywhere in the world now and you chose to stay with us, we truly appreciate  it. 