 Every morning when I drive into work, I begin to think of what the day's challenges are going to be.  I'm excited about what I'm going to see, what I will learn.  I think about the short game of what happens in the next 10 hours,  and also the long game of what happens in the next decade.  Every patient who takes a therapeutic medicine expects it to be pure.  So it's our job in the process development organization to develop a manufacturing process  that assures that purity and quality of every batch of medicine we produce.  A purification process is intended to isolate single species of the protein therapeutic that we're manufacturing,  removing impurities, cells themselves, fragments of those cells,  residual nucleic acids or proteins that aren't part of the product,  and isolating to 99.9% purity the active pharmaceutical ingredient or the drug substance that we manufacture.  The process development group that contributes to the production of a novel protein medicine  is a group that stands out from the rest.  The process development group that contributes to the production of a novel protein medicine  is a group that stays together for years as we work through the life cycle of the product.  And the group builds a real camaraderie and understanding of that product and its applications to human disease.  The groups are driven by that opportunity.  The biggest challenge we face is the large size of the portfolio that we're managing.  Genentech manufactures over 12 recombinant protein therapeutics.  That's the largest product portfolio in the biologics field in the industry.  Our pipeline at any given moment has 40 to 60 projects at various stages of preclinical and clinical development.  That's a very large portfolio.  And the volume of the clinical programs allow us to see patterns and efficiencies and commonalities  that make our processes the most innovative in the field.  There have been just a few times in my career where I've felt I've had the opportunity to participate  in a technological advance that was going to change the way we develop processes.  One of them was high-throughput screening used for chromatographic resin optimization  and the ability to test thousands of combinations of pH or salt concentrations  that could affect the purity of our protein therapeutics.  By miniaturizing this and using robots on a very small scale,  we suddenly could test in an hour what would have taken two weeks in the laboratory.  It revolutionized our field.  The job I hold today is my dream job.  This was what I wanted to do when I came out of graduate school.  And if someone had asked me where I wanted to be in 20 years,  I would have said heading up the bioprocess development group at Genentech.  Genentech  www.genentech.com 