 What exactly is Azure Active Directory? Azure AD is Microsoft's multi-tenant cloud-based identity  management service. It is highly scalable and distributed across the world through the Azure  cloud. Now that was a big mouthful so let's break that down a little bit. It is a multi-tenant  cloud service. This means that the service itself of Azure AD exists in the cloud and part of that  service there are tenants and each tenant is its own little isolated island within that world of  Azure AD. The other thing that Azure AD does is it creates a single identity solution for all other  Microsoft cloud services such as Office 365, Dynamics, Intune, and of course Azure. But it  does much more than that. It also integrates with other applications by enabling you to federate your  ID which of course enables then hybrid identity options from on-prem to the cloud and beyond with  things like B2B and B2C scenarios. However, Azure Active Directory is not Active Directory like we  have with AD servers on-prem. AD is a system that provides authentication, a directory, policies,  and some other services and it utilizes Kerberos and NTLM for authentication. Azure AD on the other  hand has two major services and that is identity and access management services. These would be  things like single sign-on, password authentication, user self-service, federation services, and uses a  completely different authentication mechanism than Active Directory. Azure AD uses OAuth which is a  more modern authentication protocol than NTLM and Kerberos. So with that said, let's jump over to  the Azure portal and we can get to Azure Active Directory from the Azure portal by going to  all services and then going to the identity section. There's all of our identity related  tools and I'm going to click on Azure Active Directory and here is my directory and if you've  seen any of our videos before we have been in here a few times already but I want to give you a quick  overview and we're not going to get into details about everything in this video. This is just meant  as a kind of level 100 introductory session for Azure AD. So the very first thing as I said in  the beginning is it is a multi-tenant service. That means each directory or each AD tenant  is isolated unto itself so you have to switch between directories if you want to go from one  to the other. So looking here at the basic overview screen we can see the name of our directory and I  am using a custom domain name and we'll show you how to do that as well as we see what our  current role is in the directory. I am a global administrator which is a built-in role and then  we also have a quick search feature over here and that's for users, groups, apps, and directory roles  so you can see all that's in there and there are some create options down the side as well as the  ability to create a new directory and then we have a section in the middle around updates and what's  new around Azure AD. So over here on the left we have some identity related services and  customizations around the directory for users, groups, and roles, applications, identity governance,  the licensing, Azure AD Connect which we'll get into in another video, making a custom domain name,  integrating with MDM solutions, password reset, company branding around the portal itself, and then  some other user settings and notifications. The properties section here is where you can see  your directory ID and that becomes important when you're doing certain kinds of tasks especially  through shell and automation and then we have a security related section and this would be for  your security score, setting up conditional access, multi-factor authentication, and other authentication  methods and then the monitoring of the directory which can be connected to log analytics as you  see here and there are audit logs specifically for Azure Active Directory as well as looking at user  sign-ins and some insights and information. That is the quick hundred thousand foot view of what's  in Azure Active Directory but let's look in some of the details here. Now one of the first things  that we saw up here on the overview is our custom domain name and then we also see this section  around licensing P1 and P2. So what exactly is this? Well let's go over to the Azure documentation page  and from here we can go to pricing at the top and here on the pricing page we'll click on pricing by  product which will take us all the way to the bottom and we'll type in here active directory  and we'll click on Azure Active Directory here and that'll take us over to the documentation pricing  page and then we scroll down a little bit and we can see the four different offerings around  licensing and prices for Azure Active Directory. Down here at the bottom we see that we have a  free version. This version is included with Office 365 and then P1 is six dollars per user per month  and nine dollars per user per month for P2. What will that shake out to in the end? Well over here  in the Azure pricing calculator we'll type in active directory and take a look at that in the  pricing calculator and of course we see here is the free version and then we have options for adding  multi-factor authentication and domain services. Now again we said in the beginning that Azure AD  is not Active Directory as you would think of it on-prem. There is however this middle ground  which if you have watched our Windows Virtual Desktop series you've seen us deploy Azure AD  domain services already but we'll do that in another video and Azure AD domain services will  deploy two domain controllers so it is highly available in that sense but then the domain will  also enable you to do NTLM and Kerberos while maintaining your cloud-centric identity which  would generally more use OAuth. So you can see by the number of directory objects that you  need you would select that and then select how many hours it will be running and then you see  the total cost for running that domain service in the cloud. Now I'm going to set that back to  zero here and then we can look at multi-factor authentication and this is of course for one  user a $1.40 a month so you just multiply this by however many users you have and then you know  what your cost is for enabling MFA in your organization. I will again set this back to zero  and then we'll choose P1 which has that cost of $6 per user per month so if you have 532 users  that's your cost for using P1 licensing versus P2 licensing which is $9 per user per month. So  look at the feature set in the documentation decide which you need and then you will be able  to see basically what your pricing would be and this is of course street pricing it doesn't take  into account any discounts or anything like that that you may have. And we'll go back to our main  documentation page so we'll go to our products and then on the left we'll go down to identity  and there is the documentation for all of our identity solutions and we'll go to Azure Active  Directory. Now you can see this documentation page is quite different than the other doc pages  that we've looked at in the past and that's because as I said in the beginning there is so much here  and they break it down into all of these sections which have subsections of their own and there is  a ton of documentation so we won't be able to certainly cover near half of everything during  this overview but I just wanted to see where it all is. So one of the other tools that we're going  to use a bit as we go through this series is going to be the Graph Explorer and this uses the  Azure Graph API and then the first thing you have to do when you get to this page which is  graphexplorer.azurewebsites.net and I'll have that linked in the description is first you have to log  in. So I'll click that and then I'll be prompted for my login so I'll choose my Windows Virtual  Desktop environment. So once we're logged in we can click here in the top bar and then it'll give  us a few items that it suggests that we look for so I could look for me and push go and then it  does a look up on my directory and we can see all of the stuff here related to my directory and my  users and there is my particular user and there's many different things here like our immutable ids  which are going to become important later as well as the distinguished name for my user where it's  located in my domain structure and many other things here like my SIP proxy address, user  principal name, all that stuff. So you can get a lot of information out of the Graph Explorer which  is also a very good troubleshooting tool as we'll see as we get into this series. So back in the  Azure portal let's take a quick look at what some of our user looks like here. So here I've got all  of my users that are in my environment and users can come in different kinds of sources. First  source that you can see here is Windows Server AD. This means that this user was synchronized  from my on-premise into Azure Active Directory. We also have Microsoft accounts and this account  in particular was one that I opened this directory with so this was an external account and then we  also have some that are native to the cloud directly. They do not exist on-prem at all  and that would be an Azure Active Directory account and there is one fourth one and that  is a invited guest and that would be if one of my accounts here decided to invite a new guest user.  So let's take a look at that experience real quick. So I'll put in here another email address. Okay so  I put in here a fake email address and then I'm going to go ahead and click invite and then you  can see down here at the bottom that we now have an invited user who is a guest in this environment.  Now this is not a valid email address and I'm just going to go ahead and delete this user.  All right so one of the other things that we can see is deleted users and these are the users that  I had from other tests that I had run and you can select them if you are okay with permanently  deleting them and click that or you could decide oh you know what I really need to bring this user  back for some reason and then you can click restore user and that'll bring it back but they  will be permanently deleted after 30 days. Also we can have some password reset functionality  and you can have this as self-service and so that way you can remove that burden from  IT administrators by allowing users to walk through this process themselves and we'll get  into self-service password reset in another video as well as you can set different authentication  methods to guarantee that the person who is going through the password reset process actually is  the correct person so we can secure this by any one of many methods here and then the user process  do we require a user to sign in before they can go through the password reset process and then we  can set customizations if we want to in the environment as well as do some on-prem integration  with password write back and things like that and then back under the users tab here we can see the  audit logs so for example here is an audit log related to a delete that was performed in my  environment that delete was against this particular target id and we can see what modified properties  there were as well as the user sign-ins if you have p1 or p2 so as you're going to see through  our sessions here there are some features that you need p1 or p2 before you can use them this happens  to be one of those the group experience is pretty much the same you can create a cloud-based group  or you can have a group that is from your synchronized environment and you can see down  here i've got these several groups that were in the cloud and so you can build those assign  groups and then also the same delete experience is here as well and then the other big one that  we'll cover for right now is under roles and administrators and these are the built-in  directory roles and that domain admin role function is carried out here by the global  administrators and you can see i've got two in my environment it is a best practice to have a  minimum of two if not three would be highly preferred so that in case one person is out or  unavailable someone still has the quote-unquote keys to the kingdom azure active directory is not  an azure subscription the relationship here which i'll show you on my sidebar the reason i've got  things organized this way is because they kind of nest in this particular manner so azure active  directory is the top level and within the directory we have management groups inside the  management groups we can nest subscriptions and then within subscriptions are resource groups and  then all of the other resources so azure active directory is not a subscription it is a separate  entity from a subscription a subscription must be part of a single azure active directory tenant  but an azure ad tenant may have multiple subscriptions now i say this because the  global admin rights in azure ad do not necessarily indicate that you have global admin type rights in  your azure subscriptions that privilege is based on the subscription access control itself and then  you can see who exactly is the owners of that subscription and there is one special role that  i'll call out as our last thing for this overview and that is the user access administrator this  role is inside azure ad under the properties in the blade and we can see down here the access  administrator role can be granted to perform all identity related functions within an azure  subscription so after i had created my subscription i removed this role from myself inside azure  active directory and granted that role instead to one of my groups that would be my sub user  account admins and the benefit of this is now i can use this as a way for adding some automation  to my user account access and identity control so that i do not have to have a person giving out the  rights i could use automation say for example that you have a domain group on prem you add a member  to a new group that member is then granted access into a cloud group based on active directory  synchronization which then is granted access to your azure subscription through an automation and  i know that sounds like a whole lot and we'll get into that in another video so i hope you've enjoyed  looking at this overview of azure active directory there is a million more things here that we could  talk about and just in an overview each one of these features we could spend a whole day on it  this is just a quick overview and we'll get more into azure ad as we go through this series so if  you haven't done so already please click on that subscribe button and if you like this video give  us a thumbs up as well as please do give us some comments below on if this was a help to you or  what you would be interested in seeing out of this azure active directory series going forward as  always thanks for joining us today and we'll see you in the next video happy learning 