 Hi, I'm Bonnie Krebs, creator of Watercolor the Art Impressions Way.  I'm about to show you how to watercolor using rubber stamps and markers.  It's quick, it's easy, it's fun, it's great for all ages.  Try it.  You are going to love it.  Welcome back to another watercolor project using Art Impressions stamps.  We're going to start with this little pail.  This is our watercolor pail, and I'm going to ink the back with the number 45 marker.  Always start out with this pen color in most of the projects.  I'm going to be stamping it on watercolor paper.  Now I'll take my brush, and I'm going to pinch off most of the water, and I'm just  going to follow these lines, just taking the color out of the lines.  This is a great project, very easy to do, and the neat thing about this project is it  only requires four stamps, four stamps and four pens, and you have this project done  in no time.  I'm going to add a little bit of color now to it from the palette, and I used a marker  and I just colored the ink on my palette, just like this, and dipped my brush in water.  So I've added a little bit of color now to my pail.  Now I'm going to take a sticky note, and I want to protect my pail as I stamp in the  foliage now, so I'm just going to cover the front of it like this.  Now I'll take my number 15, green, and I'm going to ink this stamp.  This is our watercolor limb, I'm going to ink the back of it, and just stamp it into  the pail, just ink it one more time here, and just with a very light touch, just dab  at these leaves.  Again, I pinched the water off of my brush so I'm not getting too much water on here.  And you can see how that's protected the pail now, as we covered that with the mask.  Okay, put that back on there.  Now I'm going to ink the watercolor lilies, and I'm going to color the flowers with this  number 8 purple, and I'll color the stem with the number 15 green.  And I'm going to stamp these into the pail.  You can see I don't need to ink it every time, and actually if you stamp it a couple of times  it kind of gives it a little more dimension because you've got a little bit of a lighter  color in the background.  This is such an easy project, this is great for kids.  Kids that want to learn how to watercolor, they can do this so easily.  Okay, so now I've got my flowers in the pail, and I can take my brush now, and again I'm  pinching off the water, and I'm just using the tip, and I'm just adding a little bit  of color to these, a little bit of water to these flowers.  Very carefully, very light touch.  You can find any of these stamps and watercolor products on our website, artimpressions.com.  Just go to artimpressions.com, shop our store.  Okay so, now I'm going to take my brush, and take a little bit of this number 86 blue,  and just darken in this background back here.  If I want a darker color, I just use the ink that doesn't have as much water in there.  And I can put a little bit more color on my pail if I want to.  Okay now I've got this done, I'm going to add a little bit of background now, clean  off my brush, and add a little bit of water to my green.  This is a number 15 green, and I'm just going to brush in a little bit of grass back here.  Don't have to be careful about how you do this, just add a little bit of green behind  the pail.  I'm going to clean that off, I'm going to go back to my blue again, I'm going to add  a little bit of water now in front.  Try to keep your brush strokes straight when you're doing water.  Okay, now you want to make sure that this is really dry, so just give it a couple of  seconds and make sure that this is dry to the touch before you add any stamping to the  top of that.  You don't want that to bleed.  Feels like it's pretty dry.  So now I'm going to ink my teeny tiny grass, I'm going to use my number 15, and I'm going  to ink this right along this waterline right here.  And then I can come back behind the pail, back over here, and maybe a little grass over  here.  And again, pinch my brush off and add some water to this grass.  Don't be afraid to go outside of the lines.  Just get your water onto your ink here.  And we can actually pull a little bit of the screen out into the water as well.  And now I think I'll just take a little bit of this darker blue and just brush in a little  bit of a shadow here in front of this pail and the water.  You can add lots more to this, you can add some flowers in the background, but the neat  thing about these little projects is they're so easy to do and you can do a really great  little painting with just a couple of stamps.  In this case, just four little stamps and four markers, and you can end up with a beautiful  project that is great to send to someone, great to frame, great as a gift or a card.  Always be sure to sign your projects.  This is your own personal work, and it needs your signature.  And don't be afraid to, you know, if you lose a little bit of this detail, don't be afraid  to come back in here and add some of this detail back in.  This is the fine point of the number 45 that I used before.  And there you have it, your little watercolor pail is finished.  To order Art Impressions rubber stamps, instructional booklets, and watercolor accessories, visit  our website, ArtImpressions.com, shop our store.  A.I. stamps are available mounted on wood or unmounted on cling cushion for use with  acrylic mounts. 