 And we are live. I am Justin, also known as the DIY Audio Guy, and I'm here as always  with my partner-in-crime, the one and only Nick from Toids DIY. Nick, how are you doing  tonight?  I am doing fantastic. And you?  Decent, I guess. It's hard to say some days.  You know, I watch this stupid, I don't know what you call it. It's not a meme, but it's  one of those, I don't know, shorts, I guess, of this girl who does this perfect Dora the  Explorer voice or whatever. And she's talking in Spanish about her mom making her sandwich.  And she's like, that means can I make you, can you make me a sandwich or something? That's  it. And she, the mom gets mad, throws the knife down off camera. You can hear that and  throws the thing right at her face and it hits her on camera.  I love that. That made me have a much better day.  Sometimes that's all it takes. That's all it takes to have a good day is a good joke.  Oh, the thing is me and my wife, my wife's like, you watching that again? I'm like, yeah,  it's hilarious. And then she watched it and she's like, oh gosh, this is hilarious.  Scott Bowie has chimed in and said that he's finally back to watching after months and  he's got a whole new build since he's last watched.  Oh, awesome.  That is awesome. We would love to hear about your, your build. Who else do we have in the  chat? We've got the usual crowd. We've got the deviant for life. David Kaye is here.  Hi, David. We love having you here. We appreciate your support.  Oh, he's awesome.  Blake. Blake is here with us. Get some is here as well. So we've got, who else is in  the chat? If you're in the chat, say hello.  Get some what?  It used to be get some gaming, I think.  Yeah.  Is that the same one? Did it was just a name change?  No, you're right now. It's get some, I guess it could be anything.  Could be anything. Whatever you want to go get.  Hello, Hans. Good to see you. Glad to see a good crowd in the, in the chat as always.  So,  So is it pop or soda where you're at?  Where I'm at, it's Coke.  Yeah.  You know, if someone asks if you want a Coke, you'll say, yeah, I'll have a Coke. What kind  of Coke you got? I got some Pepsi. Well, I've got great.  Yeah.  You got some Pepsi Coke.  Yeah. Now what's funny, if you get down to Atlanta, I've got a cousin of my mother's  who who's in Atlanta and her husband who died a long time ago, worked for Coke in Atlanta.  And if you said Pepsi around her, she would take it as an offense. You know, you've, you've  offended the honor of my, my, you know, my one true love has passed away and she would  get very unpleasant  because she loves Coke so much.  Yeah, exactly. Cause her husband worked for Coke for many years, apparently. And so you,  you mentioned a word that's not a Coke product around her and you're going to, you're going  to have a problem.  So  speaking of that, I know what we're going to be talking about today. And I think that  it might be important to talk about whether or not you should have a refrigerator in your  workshop.  Hmm. That's a good question.  All right.  That's a good question.  I'm just saying, Oh, Hey, look at Scott Bowie bought a JP eight.  Oh yeah. I just reviewed my JP eight on my channel. So I don't know if you saw that or  not. It, um, it did decent power. I didn't have enough juice on my test bench to, uh,  to, to let it do its in entire power amount, but I got 990 Watts out of the thing at like  11 and a half volts. So it still did pretty well.  Nice.  A BDC 412 in a 4.53 cubic foot box, two to 29 Hertz. That is huge. And that is low.  It is. I don't know what the audio pipe BDC 412 is, unfortunately.  Uh, yeah. I'm not that familiar with, uh, um, with all of, uh, all of the audio pipe  products, but, uh, that's, that's a big box. Uh, most car audio boxes aren't that big and  aren't tuned that low.  So that's interesting. It, it, it's a 12, it's a 12 inch box. And I say that's in 12  inch sub, I'm sorry. And the reason why I said it's interesting is typically the four  and I'm assuming four is four Ohm. Yeah. Two by four Ohm. So dual four Ohm. Typically  the 12 is before the impedance with most manufacturers. I was wondering if it was a 12 inch sub, but  I was like, it can't be 12 Ohm. Can it?  It's nice. Yeah. It's 12 inch. So, you know, audio pipes, one of those brands, it's really  interesting. They, um, they've got some stuff that's not that good, but they also sell some  really good stuff from a standpoint of what kind of budget can you get for, um, um, good  budget SPL gear is what I'm trying to say.  It's like a good value type thing.  Yeah. Ow, there's the cat. She's under my feet and she, uh, has decided to attack me.  Okay.  Quad stack.  Ow, good Lord.  Quad stack magnet. That makes sense.  Sorry about that, everybody. I just got attacked by my cat. Hang on.  Okay. Wow. Today we're going to be talking about, uh, workshops and we're gonna talk  about workshop flow and we're gonna be talking about what is important to having your workshop.  What is it part of your workshop? Because I think that's kind of one of the things that  you have issues with when you're looking at your workshop is what should you buy and what  shouldn't you buy, especially with all of the, well, really cool gear that you can get,  especially I'd say for the price that you can get now, there's a lot of good things  that you can buy for relatively inexpensive.  Like for example, when WEN is a manufacturer that you can buy off Amazon, they can get  a lot of decently priced things. They're all made in China, but some of their stuff, like  their dust, um, collector, uh, is actually like the same as jet, just rebranded. So you  save a lot of money by buying one of those. So there are definitely some things that you  can do. Now, Justin is really partial to this topic today because Justin just built a workshop  as you guys know, and now he's going to be talking about the workflow of that.  And I want to say, first of all, before we go too far, I want to say, I agree with David.  You have to have a mini fridge in your workshop. If it's going to be like a workshop that you're  gonna be working in all day, you just have to have a mini fridge. You gotta have some  drinks in there. You gotta have a little bit of a snack in there. I just, I just agree  with that. I think that's a great use of workshop flow. You don't want to be leaving your workshop  to go grab a bottle of water that's sitting in your fridge in your house. You want to  keep dragging the stuff back and forth. So we have decided that a workshop fridge, mini  fridge is a necessity in the workshop while you were gone.  And I have been debating that very same thing myself. Do I want a fridge in the new garage  that, uh, that I'm in the process of moving into and I'm leaning more and more on the  yeah, I need one. Yeah. I think the, like the important thing is you don't want to be  tracking all that stuff. You're going to get hot and sweaty out there while you're working.  You don't want to be tracking that all back to your house just to grab a drink of water  or whatever, bring it back in. Oh, it's a better option. Oh, you need a large fridge.  So if I've heard slightly, I read it wrong. He said, wrong, no mini fridge. You need a  large fridge and make it a man cave. Yeah. Decent sized fridge. I think you can at least  get a 12 pack of beer and two cases of water in at the same time or cold. As David said,  cold water, apples, Corona, and more Corona. And true voice reason. You know, I actually  do that. I do drink from the hose. I just turn on my little, I have a spigot there.  I just lift up, you know, like the old school spigots where you just kind of lift up the  thing and that water comes out. We drink from that. Oh yeah. I, um, I was, I was raised  drinking from the hose. So yeah, just if you have water in the hose, make sure to run it  for a while before you put your lips on it. Oh yeah. Burn it. Well, yeah. And that clears  out whatever trash might be in the hose. You don't want to get it right the first day.  That is another good point too. All right. We we've gone way off topic. So that's okay.  No, no, we're on topic. Sorry. I had to run the, uh, the cat likes to hang out beneath  my feet and sometimes she decides that clawing and biting my feet is the appropriate thing  to do. And so she's now out in the garage. So we'll, we're done with that for the night.  All right. So let's hear your big workflow things. Some of the tools you think you shouldn't  do now. I'm curious too. I know what I think. I know we disagree as well on some things.  So this is the, uh, this is the thing, right? So the question for, for you, the question  for everybody out in the chat, the discussion for tonight is, um, when you're in your, your  DIY workspace, your, whatever it is you happen to have where you can get some work done,  uh, whether that's, you're just out on the patio, whatever the case might be. Um, how  do you set it up to get work done efficiently? And what tools do you actually have to have?  And what tools can you just completely live without? Uh, for example, how important is  a drill press? I don't have one and I don't plan to get one anytime soon, but I do have  a CNC that can work as a drill press. So, but I personally don't think you need a drill  press. Curious about the guys in the chat, what are your thoughts on a drill press? I'd  like to have one, um, simply because you can do things like, um, if you need to make a  lot of precision cuts, uh, holes, you can line those things up and, you know, repeated cuts,  repeated holes, that kind of thing. I watch a lot of woodworking channels on YouTube. It'd be nice  to have one, but my thoughts is that I don't need a small drill press. One of these tiny ones,  it's like 60 bucks from Harbor Freight or the tinier Obi one from, from Home Depot is, is of  no use. I need a big one. If I'm going to have one, it needs to be huge and take up a lot of  full stand one. Exactly. Like a 12 inch drill press, right? Something that's, that's got some  size to it where you can actually get some work done. See, I agree with Blake. He said, Hey,  drill press is really nice when you need it, but it's kind of niche. And I agree with that. I would  say that it's very low priority for me to have the good thing about drill presses. It doesn't  have to take up a lot of room. True. So, I mean, you have that going for you. If you are working  on a workspace workflow and you do have to get one, it's not a machine that's,  that you have to be concerned about in that regards. Brian Steele said on a scale of one  to five, he'd give it a one. I agree. I might even give it below a one. All right. So here's,  here's the way I like to think about these kinds of things. If you had enough space to either put  a decent fridge or a decent drill press in this one spot, instead of going to take up the same  amount of space, right? Which one do you pick? Fridge. The fridge. Yeah. You're going to be  using the fridge like daily in there. And you're going to use the drill press once a year.  The true voice of reason says he has an antique drill press from the fifties with a newer motor  on it. That, that would be cool. If I had an antique one from the fifties, I'd have it.  I actually had one before I left. I didn't bring it with me. I gave it back to the guy who gave it  to me because I didn't have time to, I didn't have the space to bring it. And those are cool  too. Cause they have belts on top and you, you change the belts in order to change, you know,  the, the amount of torque, I guess. I came real close to buying one at an auction. It was a,  a larger, a benchtop drill press that was, you know, old from the sixties or something like  that. I forget, but I think it may have been a craftsman. And I was looking at it thinking,  eh, you know, do I want to haul this thing all the way down to the house?  And I thought, no, not really. And and I'm glad I let it go because what I realized after someone  else outbid me on it was that I didn't have a space to put it. And so I, you know, I think  that I'm only going to buy tools if I have a spot to put the tool. And I think that's probably a  good rule. Brian said, Hey, you know, maybe you can DIY a drill press with a vertical sled mount  for a hand drill. And there are a lot of people that do that. And that's true. That wouldn't fit  your idea most likely because you said you want a really large one, but for most people,  they only need to utilize it every once in a while. The other thing too, is depending on how  accurate you need these things, you can also buy a drill with a, with a level on it now.  And so it tells you if you're drilling straight down, I mean, if you're doing it for like  feet on a speaker or subwoofer or something, you just really want it to be level more than  they make them. They make these, these portable drill press stands where you can take any drill  and put in, it looks kind of like a, like a router bit. Right. So, you know, if you,  if you want to make sure you're drilling perfectly straight holes, when you're drilling your speaker  hole, your bolt holes for your speakers, something like that would be, would be cool. But there you  go. I'm trying to see. So what, what tools are, what tools are on your, you have to have for  workflow or what is at least one of them? Because drill press, I think we all agree is kind of like,  so a drill press is a no. So, so here's the question for you. How important is an air compressor?  So this is where I know you and I disagree. I would say an air compressor is very important.  In fact, I put that near the top and I would not get a pancake air compressor. I would get a bigger  one. You get one from Harbor Freight. You don't have to get like anything crazy expensive. I got  one from Harbor Freight. That's a pretty big one. But here's the reason why. The air compressor can  do everything. It can clean off your tools. It can, like when your dust goes everywhere and you  need to blow something off real quick, it can blow it off. Your air compressor can paint. If you want  to go ahead and get a real nice finish on it, you can go ahead and use a, and you can even get a  cheap paint sprayer from Harbor Freight once again for 20 bucks. You can use air tools on it.  So you can nail things. You can staple things. You want to add insulation later. You want to  staple all of that. Well, that's easy with that. I mean, heck, you can even add air tools to be  able to take apart things like your table saw and stuff when they get damaged. So for me,  an air compressor for me is so multifunctional that I think it's one of the tools that I would say  comes more in handy than you would imagine. And I would absolutely have it.  So 20 years ago, I would have agreed with you wholeheartedly. Maybe 15 years ago,  I would have agreed with you wholeheartedly. But today, the lithium battery technology has  progressed to the point, and there's such a wide variety of power tools available that virtually  everything you mentioned that can be done with an air compressor can be done with something  else, with something else. So you're going to paint with a 20 volt battery. Painting is about  the only thing I think where you would really need an air compressor or if you actually need  air up a tire. Or if you need to take up, or if you need to take apart your table saw, because  here's the deal. They don't, those battery ones don't have the torque that something like that,  that your air gun is going to have. So if you have, you know, if you grab one of those  high end Milwaukee ones, those things got a lot of those things have a lot of torque.  I'll tell you what, you take that battery powered Milwaukee,  and you try to take a tire off your car and you tell me how it works.  Now, if we were talking about a heavy duty truck or a tractor or something,  working on 18 wheelers, I'd be with you on that. But I'm thinking for just a car,  I think if you have an impact wrench, an impact driver, battery powered,  because mechanics use those all the time. You go to any mechanic shop and you'll see them  with their tool truck brand drills going in there. So you can get an impact driver that  can take nuts and bolts off cars just fine. And again, if we were working on 18 wheelers,  I'd be with you. But I think that today, I don't think we need air compressors anymore.  I will say everyone in the chat disagrees with you.  Everyone's allowed to disagree. They don't have to be right. They can be, they can be wrong.  Stu's Custom Shop says that Milwaukee 18 volt half inch will remove any bolts you need in the  vehicle. And I'm not stating the fact that it may not be able to remove a bolt. It's  how long will it last after it removes that bolt? How long do you have that battery power for if it  has to use that much torque? I mean, that's the more of the concern I have. It's not so much that  will it not work? It's how long will it work for and how many batteries do you have to go through  where air is free and the air compressor, air is practically free, I should say. And the air  compressor fills back up relatively quickly if you need to. Brian Townsend is with me. And of course,  I have the ability to pick out chats and you can't. So I'm only going to pick ones who agree  with me. Yeah, you can do that. Yeah, he says I barely use my air compressor anymore. Battery  power tools are the way to go. Robert Clark. Chevy 5500 Kodiak trucks and my half inch Milwaukee  takes off the tires. No problem. So, so I mean, you're not entirely wrong, Nick. There's still a  lot of good uses for an air compressor. An air compressor still has more torque than the battery  power. I mean, that's just the truth. All right. Yeah. You've got space in your shop for a fridge,  an air compressor, or a drill press. You can have one, which one? Air compressor. Air compressor  before a fridge. Yes. Yeah, I would do the fridge. Okay. I would do the fridge. So that's now our  metric. We have enough space for one tool, which would you put this tool in the list? I mean, I  think, I think, I think you're fine to do that. But with DIY, you should be painting a lot more than  than what you're doing, unless you're just rolling everything.  Well, I'll tell you what I'm what I'm going to do. I do have a pancake compressor, I'm not going  to upgrade that compressor, it's going to be it's going to get me by until it dies. And I will run  some air hose, probably some some metal pipe. And I'm going to put them on a put put the air hose  on a reel hanging above me in the garage. Because the thing I like the least about the air compressor  is I'm always dragging that damn hose around everywhere. And oh, excuse me, what I don't like  is I don't like the hose. That's why I don't like air tools. I'm trying to get away from anything  with a cable or a cord or a wire on it. Because that's just something else to trip on. So I'll  install a cord reel a hose reel at some point, but it's not high on the high on the list.  Yeah. And you know, a lot of guys are talking about the half inch ones, which are which are  significantly better than what most people have. When they're talking about battery powered,  when I'm talking about battery powered, once you don't talk about like your normal,  everyday DIY, DeWalt, Ryobi, you know, basic drive, you know, but the half inch nicer ones,  they're nice. I mean, obviously, we all know mechanics use those. Oh, yeah. All right. So  it is nice to have the batteries to in the essence, you don't have to run the wire,  I would still rather have the air compressor overall, it's the tools are cheaper. And  it's more multifunctional still. Fair enough. So here's a question that has been brought up.  We've talked about this before. How important is a table saw? Because one of our viewers had  mentioned that a better option might be to go with a track saw instead of a table saw.  If you had to, if you could only have one a track saw or a table saw, which route would you go?  It depends on what I'm doing. I mean, if I'm having to rip a lot of things,  then I'd probably do the track saw because it's much easier for one person to rip with a track  saw. But if I'm making multiple different types of cuts and things that nature, then you know,  a table saw for me, since I use almost everything, I do almost everything on the CNC. Now, I usually  only have to rip the board in half or something like that. So for me, I would rather have a track  saw. But for most people, I think a table saw is much better. So you're gonna rip a board in half  and put a half sheet on the on the CNC and the CNC is gonna do all the work for you. Yeah,  like a sheet good in half. Correct. Yep. Stu down here is a big fan of the of the track saw.  I noticed that RYOBI has a track saw out now. And I'm kind of curious, since I've got RYOBI battery  power tools, I think it'd be kind of cool to do a track saw to handle the bigger material. But I  still like the idea of a table saw. I'm a table saw fan. Yeah, I mean, a table saw is obvious.  Once again, they're, they're more, they're more versatile, right? Like a table saw is still gonna  be more versatile, it's gonna have more power, assuming that you have a nice table saw, it's  gonna have a lot more power than your track saw or your circular saw. Circular saw is a great idea.  I have one, we both use that Craig jig. Yeah, right. That kind of thing. It's, it's kind of  flimsy, but it works for you know, in a pinch. I like it. I use it all the time to cut my wood  down. I don't have any issue with that. But the table saw is gonna have once again, more power.  Most of the time. Robert Clark says you can put your beer on a table saw.  I don't think I'd recommend mixing beer and power tools together.  Yeah. And I mean, the other issue with the with a track saw, which we haven't brought up,  I'll bring up now is that when you buy a track saw, most of them are proprietary.  So if something ever happens to your track saw, all that tracks off fence and stuff,  you have to buy either that exact track saw again, or Yep. Or you have to buy a whole new system  again, where a table saw if you buy a nice table. So if anything happens to it, you should be able  to at least buy a new motor. All right, a solid comment. Regular Guy Audio said that his least  use saw is his 12 inch compound miter saw. Do you have a miter saw? I do. How often do you use it?  When I'm using when I'm making when I'm doing trim work in my house all the time,  all the time, but not for audio projects? Yeah, not really. No, I don't, you know,  not not as often. I do use it on some things, but not as often as I'd use a table saw or anything.  So I do have a miter saw. And I like my miter saw. I got it cheap. I built a table just for it  made some custom stop blocks and stuff did a video on it. I don't plan on doing any videos  on shop furniture, because when I do videos on shop furniture, they don't they don't they don't  get any views. But I would say that if we're going back to our metric of you've got enough  space for one tool. You've got refrigerator air compressor. What else did we say drill press?  Now let's add the miter saw. So we can throw a drill press off because we don't need it. So the  drill press. Yeah, so you're down to a miter saw or refrigerator if you had to choose between the  two. No, I'm still an air compressor. Oh, you're still an air compressor. So I'm I'm at refrigerator  it's got my spot. So between miter saw and refrigerator, I'm picking the fridge.  Between those two, I would take the fridge too. But if it's between those three,  I'd still take the air compressor. So you're still air compressor?  Well, yeah, you can buy air compressor tools for so inexpensive. And they do so like  David was with me. And he was saying the same thing. Hey, I don't have to buy batteries,  I have to recharge my I have to worry if they go bad, all that stuff. But then I would put  fridge second, and then miter saw third. I tell you what I don't like about miter saws,  when you go for a sliding miter saw, virtually all of them slide to the back. And so now if you had,  you know, a two foot workbench, you need to pull that workbench under a foot away from the wall  in order to get the slide mechanism to have room to work. But there are a couple that don't slide.  And if I were going to get a 12 inch miter saw, I would get some that didn't slide. I think it's  there are two brands, I think Delta is one of them. And the other one I think is a similar  brand of Delta I think same company makes it that has these folding arms.  So I have a 12 inch miter saw that's not a compound miter saw or not a not a slider. Yeah,  and and I like it's fine. There's nothing wrong with it. But even that takes up a lot of room.  It's also very even if you hook up like a hose to it, you're going to get a lot of dust  when you when you use utilize that. So oh, the dust collection on my miter saw is terrible.  It's a 12 inch miter saw and like it. It's just pretending to collect dust. It is.  No, it cuts maybe like a 10%. Maybe if you're lucky, you know, it's yeah.  So I mean, that's the other big thing too, is it's it's, it's a messy.  Whenever I get done with it, I hate you have to clean up the work area when you're done with it,  because it's just dust is everywhere. Right? There's no way or no way around it. So so you're  if you weren't doing trim work around the house, if you were just doing audio,  would you have a miter saw? No, no, no. Well, I mean, yeah, I might but  it wouldn't be on the top of my list. Be lower down the list. Yeah.  When I didn't have as much nice equipment, I did use my miter saw a lot, a lot more than I do now.  Yeah, I'm with Brian on this one really, really low in a DIY audio workshop. If I were going to  have one, I would want one that would be huge. So I can make a good like about a 16 inch cut  on for those times when you're you know, you need to make a wide cut like that.  Well, a miter saw is nice. If you don't have like if you have a table saw,  like if you have a table saw, and you don't have like a sled for your table saw,  miter saw is nice to have. Someone else said, Hey, it's nice. If you need to make a lot of  repetitive cuts, and it's true, you can put a stop, you know, on your miter saw and just keep  blocking it off, which is what I do. I have wood tables on either side of it. And I just  slide it to wood and I screw a piece of wood in, you know, yeah, just right in there. That way,  I can just bump it and cut it bump it and cut it. That's that's I only use my miter saw  when I'm building shop furniture, and I'm cutting like say the legs for the shop furniture.  And I've got stop blocks on either side of it. And I just, you know, set the stop block measure  once and start cutting. So I mean, if I didn't have it, I would do the same thing on a table  on a table saw with a sled, because you can set a stop block on a sled to  Yeah, you can. Well, depending on how long of a cut you need.  Yeah, of course, depends how big your table saw is as well. So I mean, if you've got a big enough  saw, I mean, because you can get saws that are, you know, four or five feet wide.  So for me, like, here's here's the thing I would say, too, because we keep talking about table saw,  and I'm going to say, I love a table saw, but I think a table saw is best if used in a workshop,  if you have a table built around it, where you have an outfeed table and side feed tables,  things that you can utilize to cut large pieces like, like big sheets of MDF, or something of  that nature. I agree, if you don't have the ability to handle a big piece of MDF, then it's  not not that useful, you need a plenty of room for the outfeed, you do need side feed tables.  And the table saw that I've been working off of, it can do a 30 inch wide cut. But that thing,  you don't want to do a 30 inch wide cut on that thing, it's probably not safe.  And I'll tell you the two, I would say if people said, Hey, what are the two, the two things that  you need the most? If you're just getting in this industry, I would say, forgo all saws,  first of all, because you can typically get Home Depot or Lowe's or any big box store to cut it  for you. Alright, so if if you can't afford a circular saw, which my first thought would be  go grab a cheap circular saw, you get one a yard sale for under 20 bucks typically.  But then the two things you absolutely need is a sander. You need a  sander, a handheld palm sander, I don't care which one, you know, whatever. And,  and, and a router, those would be my two favorite things to get you can you can cut wood with a  router if you want to, if you want to set up a saw, I wouldn't, but you could. But you'll you'll  need it to cut circles and other things. So or should have it 25 Hertz to life has has landed  on one of these things that I think is extremely important and nut and bolt organizer. That is a  that is a must have. That's a must have I think I grew up I grew up on a farm. And, and because we  just went through too many nuts and bolts for all kinds of things. We actually had a huge like wall  of a big we call it the bolt bin nuts and bolts and washers of every size and shape imaginable.  And if you needed one, you just ran and got one. And now when I need one,  I got to run to the damn hardware store because I don't have this giant pile  nuts and bolts to work with. So  I saw another comment that I wanted to highlight. All right, El Fuego said that a bench top belt  sanders next on his shopping list. What are your thoughts on a bench top bench top Sanders in  general? I think Nick has frozen. So Nick has been having camera problems before we got started. And  so it appears that he has frozen and he stopped talking to which means his audio may have died  or he may have muted his mic and he's probably trying to get his camera set up. So we'll just  go ahead and keep going. One of the things that I wanted to talk about and El Fuego bring it up  is brought up as the bench top sander. Yeah, we just lost Nick. Oh, well, we'll, we'll catch him  up here in a minute. He can get back in. So have y'all seen these things? There are these kind of  like a bench top sander on its side that you can change the piece out until you can have a whole  sanding bench or turn it into an oscillating spindle sander. And I wonder if one of those  would be worth having. Let me see if I can pull one up and see an example of that. Hang on one  second while I pull one up.  Here we go. This is the Harbor Freight version. Rigid has one. There are several different  versions like this. So y'all in the chat, what do you think about a machine like this? How  useful is something like this where you can basically use it as a belt sander? You wouldn't  even need like a disc sander. If you've got one of these, just, just this alone. And of course,  it has the spindles down below that you can swap out. So tell me in the chat, what do you think?  Thumbs up or thumbs down on one of these right here, the oscillating edge belt and spindle  sander. Is that a good thing? Coop W says it is garbage. Anybody else agree? Is this garbage?  Is it worth buying? 219 for the Harbor Freight version. And of course, there's other versions  of it. Regular Guy Audio says that they love it. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know.  I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know.  Blake says it's good for finishing work. So this might be something that's worth having.  So we might put it on the list of tools you might want to have in order to speed up your workflow.  And I have no idea what happened to Nick. He might send me a Facebook message. Hang on one second.  Ah, he just lost power. So his power went out at his house. So he lives in a little bit of a  rural area. So that happens sometimes when you live in the middle of nowhere.  And now I got to carry the entire show by myself, which is not something I'm used to doing.  2020 was a tough year for me, but I'm still here. I'm still here. I'm still here. I'm still here.  I'm still here. I'm still here. I'm still here. I'm still here. I'm still here. I'm still here.  Which is not something I'm used to doing. 25 Hertz to life says a mini oven to cook a pizza  and leftovers. Now like a microwave or something might be worth having.  So maybe that would be a good one. And while we're waiting on Nick to get power again,  Brian's got a good comment. The main sander is an 18 inch flat ceramic tile with sanding  paper stuck on its surface. That's a really good thing to do. I like that idea.  I've seen a lot of people build sanding blocks and sanding sticks just by taking some super glue  and gluing some sandpaper onto scraps of wood and whatnot. And that's always an efficient way  to get things done. And while I've got the screen share going, let me pull up this right here  to kind of walk y'all through what it is I'm planning on doing with my new garage setup.  So the entire thing is finished as of now. And I'm in the process of moving all the stuff in,  and this is roughly how I'm going to have it laid out. Towards the front of the garage,  I'm going to have an outfeed table. That's the outfeed table right here and the saw right behind  it. And then I'm going to make sure I've got floor space reserved to pull the truck in.  So the idea here is that I can keep my truck inside of the garage along with all this other  stuff. And then I'm going to do the dust collection right here. Now the question is,  should I go for a big dust collector, like say the Harbor Freight dust collector, or should I just  stick to the Shop-Vac dust collector? So let me know what y'all think about the dust collection  situation. Is it worthwhile to go for one of those big, powerful dust collectors, or should  just stick with a Shop-Vac? Rob, Nick has abandoned me. He actually just sent me a Facebook  message. He's lost power in his house, and that is where he is. So that happens from time to time,  I suppose. It's been a while since I've lost any power. So, but it's good to have you here,  Rob. And we're just talking today about shop stuff in general. Then the plan is this back bench back  here is where I'm going to have my main workbench and test bench. This area right here is where I'm  going to go to when I need to wire up a harness or something like that. This is where I'm going  to be plugging in my, it's where it helps have a second person on. So you don't have to talk the  entire time, it's freedom of consciousness. But back here in the back is where I'm going to be  plugging in my amp dyno station, where I'm going to be plugging in my soldering iron. And this is  where I do all my electrical work on vehicles. The miter saw table is going to go here. And I'm  in the process of building a router table with a lift to go right here in this spot. And so looking  at the chat, as far as dust collection go, bigger is better on the dust collection. So David K says,  go for the biggest dust collection I can get. Anyone else have any thoughts on dust collection?  Blake says a true dust collector is unbelievably worth it. So I'm thinking a dust collector might  be the way to go. Any room to hang stuff from the roof? So I've actually got 10 foot high  ceilings in this thing. So I do have room to hang stuff from the, from the roof. I was thinking  about adding a hoist, hanging it from the ceiling joist over here. So I'm going to add a hoist  I was thinking about adding a hoist, hanging it from the ceiling joist over here. So if I  had something heavy in the back of the truck, I could just hoist it right out. So what are  your thoughts on adding something like a hoist or a lift to a workshop? Is that something that's  worth having? Box fan with filters to help with airborne dust. I think that's what I'm going to  do. I think that's a good idea. I think it would be kind of cool to have some just big fans in the  space so we could keep the place cool in the summertime, because it's going to get hot out  there. Get some says you can make a good dust collector with a barrel and a shop vac. Coop says  got to have the dust collector. So I think I probably will go ahead and upgrade to the dust  collector. Go ahead and get a big industrial one if I can. Dehumidifiers. Now I don't know if a  dehumidifier is worth it or not, especially when you've got an open garage door. So  hot in the South? No, no, no, not at all.  It's just humid. That's just part of it. What I think I'll probably do is right here in this  area, I've got two big windows and I think I'll probably end up putting some big fans in those  windows. Like I'll build a shelf right there to put some fans on and I can pull some air through  the garage. Coop says put the noisy stuff outside. Not a bad idea. Brian Townsend says go for the  mini split for HVAC. That's not a bad idea either. Eventually I'm going to insulate this thing and  end up putting some type of system in. It might just be a windy unit. Melton Performance is here.  Good to see you Mullen. And of course they're talking about a UPS, a backup for a computer  would be handy to have. I wouldn't mind having one of those as well. Most of those UPS backup  systems for computers just keep the computer powered up long enough for you to save things  and shut down. So not that powerful. Rob says as long as we have air moving, it'll be all right.  I agree. I said earlier I grew up on a farm. We never had any air conditioning in any of the  stuff we had on the farm. All the buildings were just barns and sheds and we would just  turn on big fans. Dodgy Brothers Engineering on the Dust Collection says big as you can afford  or fit in your space. You are sucking that stuff in and most of it is dangerous and could be  cancer-forming, especially MDF. Yeah, Rob, if you want to come join the party, I will send you a  Facebook message real quick with the StreamYard link because then I won't just be up here by  myself stumbling around trying to talk to the guys in the chat.  All right, Rob, that link should be heading your way.  Just send it via Facebook message.  And while Rob is getting ready to join in, we will just go right ahead. Swamp coolers. Swamp  cooler is more cost-effective than HVAC system. I like the idea of a swamp cooler, but the problem  with a swamp cooler is they add more humidity into the situation and I would like to get some out.  I know that they've created this new thing that I think is kind of cool. It's basically the same  idea as a swamp cooler. Instead of blowing over the cold air over the ice, it actually circulates  over the ice. So it's like a cooler with a heat exchanger on it and you can just, off you go.  So a little bit more of a high-tech swamp cooler.  Mullen Performance says he has a 24 by 24 garage. It's barn style and the walls are packed with  insulation. I've seen yours on your channel and it looks fantastic. Mine's 24 by 30, so it's just  a hair bigger than yours. In the wintertime, it doesn't get that cold. I'll probably get some  type of propane burner or something like that so I can heat it up quickly in the wintertime if I  need to do a glue up or something. But for the most part, I'm just going to tough it out. The  winters here are actually pretty mild, all things considered. The main thing is I can park a vehicle  in the garage in the wintertime and I don't have to worry about having to scrape my windshields in  the morning when I get up. Regular Guy Audio says take those silica gel packs that come in  everything that gets shipped to you and throw them in your speakers in the basement to keep  the moisture out. That's not a bad idea at all. I might start saving those, start using them for  something productive. Radiant barrier insulation is a must if you have an open roof. I think that's  probably a good idea. I wouldn't mind going spray foam. I think it'd be kind of cool to spray foam  everything. So Robert High Five Vega is going to jump on and he's going to add to the conversation.  Robert High Five Vega, thanks for joining me here in a pinch to kind of fill in for Nick while he's  out and off the grid. So what's going on, man? Nothing much, man. Talking about shops. I love  tools, you know. Man, the last time you were on the show with us, you had the same haircut I did  and look at you with all that hair, man. Oh, I know. It's actually,  it needs to be cut right now. I'm willing to grow it out some, but we're not going to go  hippie here. It's going to be a thing. So Rob, you joined us a little bit late and so I'd like  to get your opinion on a couple of things. What are some tools that are must have if you were  going to put together a shop, right? So if you were making the High Five Vega shop, what are  some things that are a must have? For example, do you think a drill press is a must have or is  that leave it off the list? Dude, it's so like if you're only going to be doing box builds,  I would say drill press is not absolutely necessary. But if you want to start doing  any kind of metal fabs like aluminum, if you're wanting to do some custom distribution block,  you need a decent drill press. That's the thing. It's like if it's only a wood shop,  I think you could get away without it. If it is going to be more than a wood shop,  I would consider it. What are your thoughts on a shop press?  Again, for like doing fabrication work, because I know Car Audio Fab, for example,  likes to do those molded metal projects where he has the mesh and he molds it and he has a  shop press for that. Deviant says turn your mic up, Rob. Okay, I can come up here. Let me see.  Sounds fine to me, but I'm just loud. Yeah, but but do you think a shop press is worth having?  Yeah, I mean, I do a lot of mechanic work. So in my experience, a shop press is going to be  handy for ball joints and stuff like that. But besides that, I think like the pressing  of the, you know, mesh, if you need to make some kind of mold for something,  I don't know that I'd get an expensive one, I'd probably get the cheap Harbor Freight one that's  like 125 bucks. But yeah, I think it'd be worth it if you get it cheap enough.  I think that's one of those things that it's like the big dust collector from Harbor Freight. They  were on sale this last week last week, and there were 200 bucks on sale. And so I did pick one up,  actually, I've been talking about on the channel. So I went ahead and ordered a nice air filter for  it. It came in today. I spent almost as much on the air filter as I did on the thing. So  they got a lot of hacks for those. People do a lot of hacks with those, you know.  So I was asking questions. I forget about what I'm trying to figure out how best to wire it. I'm  going to need to add another circuit to the circuit breaker and run the VAC on its own  circuit. And so I popped into the Den of Tools Facebook page.  I've seen it. I've seen the post. We're both, listen, we're both nerds. We're both on the  same page. And people were giving links to like, you can replace the impeller in those things with  an impeller with bigger blades, apparently, and upgrade the impeller. I'm looking at that going,  I don't know if I'm going to fool with that. But this thing after I run it, I've already ordered  one of those things. It fits on the top of a trash can. That's just a tube in, tube out to  separate. It's basically the cheapest separator that's out there. And so today before the live  stream, I went and put the good filter on it and fired it up and threw a handful of sawdust in it.  You know, suck the sawdust up. That's what it does. It's got a lot more suction than a shop vac.  Dude, that's going to be such a nice upgrade. Like you're going to,  what, even if you spent, if you spent a thousand dollars on dust collection,  you would still be happy with the amount of money you spent. So the, you know,  spending three, four, 500 bucks, definitely worth it.  Oh yeah. Oh yeah. I'm looking forward to that. I'm going to run some for now. I'm just going to  use some, some of the four inch tubing to run to things. The first thing that I actually build,  you know, first thing I run on the, on the run through the saw in the new shop is going to be  the stuff I need to build a box to go under the router table. I've, you remember last year we  were talking about this. I, I bought one of those router lifts and I never had the chance to put it  together. And I went ahead and bought some melamine and built a router table. So I've got a router  table with a lift sitting in it and it's, it's looking nice and ready to go. I just need to build  a box underneath it so I can hook the dust collection up to it. So that's been a long,  nice. That's like my dream would be to have a multi router table, just a minimum of two,  just so I can have round over bits on one flush cut, you know, flush trim bits, flush cut grits  on the other. The, the way I've got it built, I can take the top off and cut a second one in.  So if I really wanted to do that, I could, and I've got two routers though. All right. Deviant  for life. Ask a question, a surface planer, yes or no, is a planer important for an audio shop  for a wood shop? I'm going to say a hundred percent. Yeah. I'd love to have a planer.  I'd actually rather have a jointer than a planer. I'd like to have both.  But for what we do, you're not going to be doing a lot of rough cut. I mean, a planer,  if you're going to be using like a lot of solid wood, probably, but a jointer, you're right.  A jointer for us would be more important if you're going to be using. And, and it's still  a wood shop thing. I think for the stuff we use, we don't need either, but if you're going to be  doing, you, you never want a unit tasker. So you want your shop to be kind of a little bit of  everything. Right. So that's something you got to consider. So, okay. As I think about how useful a  planer, jointer, jointer, planer, you know, the two separate tools would be, I would love to try  to make some boxes that look really nice. That's because I, you know, cause I make stuff and I look  at it and I go, ah, it didn't look all that nice. I'm not happy with anything that I make.  And, you know, you see all these woodworking channels on YouTube where the guys are  taking chunks of hardwood, cutting them up, gluing together, running them through jointers  and planers and gluing them back together and rearranging and gluing them back together.  Something like that would make a great speaker baffle. And it would be better than just using  a piece of hardwood because it'd be directionally stable because all those pieces are going a  thousand different directions. Right. And so something like a planer, so you could  joint something together cause you can joint on a table saw. Right. And then, and then maybe put  something together and have some cool patterns and whatnot on the front of your speaker baffle.  That might be kind of cool. That definitely would be cool. It'd be, it'd be a kind of  one-off situation, but it would be, I would say like I've used actually as an experiment,  I've built an enclosure out of pine. So one by four pine and for, and all I've done on a  six and a half enclosure, it's like a 0.5 ported 35 Hertz. It's not bad. I didn't, I don't know  how well it'll translate to like, if you tried it with a 15, you're probably going to have some  issues, but on, on a six inch subwoofer enclosure, it wasn't bad. It sounds okay. And it's,  there's no crazy resonance or. I think it would probably be fine for a set of bookshelf speakers.  And there are things you can do to help lower the resonance. There's all kinds of tricks for,  for the residents and stuff. So, so tell me your opinion on the layout that I've got. And so the  way I've got my plugs arranged, this, this layout is pretty much set in stone at this point. So the  idea here is on the right-hand side, I've got space to pull the truck in. Right. And then on  the left-hand side, there's going to be an outfeed table, the table saw, dust collector in  this area here, I can zoom in and then router table, which is extra tall, by the way, I've  already built it and it's really tall. My miter table. And then after that, it's my main work  bench where I've got all of my soldering iron, my power supply, that kind of stuff. At least one  table on wheels that I can roll around. Then I'm going to make some, buy some toolboxes and put  in this corner over here. And, and so what are your thoughts on the workflow? What could be done  to improve the workflow? I'll tell you right now that the top left corner on your workbench,  that spot that conjoins with this is going to be a collection spot. Since the way it's set up,  it's that's in every shop I've ever been in and worked in. If it's not accessible by walking,  it's a collection spot for stuff, which is fine, but maybe plant some storage in that spot or  gotcha. Gotcha. Right. Right. It's a spot where that stuff's going to pile up. Yeah. Yeah. I'm  not happy with the toolboxes over here. Cause I find I'm always running to get tools. I've already  got a couple that I've got placed over there. Right. So, so, so Nick has, has jumped into the  chat and the power is out. And so he is, he will not be back for the night, but that's okay. Because  Rob saw me struggling and trying to run the show by myself and he jumped in and saved the day. So  I'm not a pure Babylon to myself. Hope you get power Nick soon. Yeah. Yeah. It's the, you know,  what's funny is like, so Nick and I aren't that far from each other. And so if it was a storm  that took his power out, it's going to be here in a couple of hours. Right. And I wasn't aware of  any bad weather moving through the area. So maybe something went wrong, like a car hit a pole or  something like that. When you live, when you live a little bit out in the middle of nowhere, cars  hit poles and you lose power for a day. So, you know, what might be a good addition under that  table, your workbench table, a lazy Susan underneath there for stuff you don't use all the  time. Cause that's just going to be an empty space. Yeah. I like that idea. So this space  over here, it's actually, you know, the way it actually is laid out, everything slid towards  the front a little more and there's room to stand right here because I've got, I've got pulled out  drawers in this workbench here. And so that, you know, those things are, they're on a, they're 24  inch deep and they're on full extension drawer slides. I made those myself. And so I got two  banks of those and they'll slide all the way out this space in between two big windows. I'm going  to put a shelf there and put some fans there. So that'll be nice. Yeah. Yeah. You just got to keep  the air. You know, it's hot in the South. We already know it is. We live in the South, but  if you keep air moving, it's, it's bearable. Right. Right. That is, that is the truth.  You just got to keep the air moving. So what are some things, what are your thoughts on  including like a hoist in the ceiling? Cause you can go to like Harbor Freight and get a  hoist that can lift 600 pounds pretty cheap. Is something like that worth having?  You know what? I mean, we're not getting any younger and some of these big enclosures,  I think it would be, especially if you don't already have like a lift cart,  if you have a lift cart, you know, the, you know, we both watched the tool bear,  he's big on the lift cart. And for good reason, they're, they're, they're useful for heavy stuff.  But I would, I would consider a hoist depending on how it's going to place it. What I was going  to use it. Is it going to be on the track system? Is it going to be stationary? There's a lot of  factors into whether I'd want one or not. Cause you can get them cheap enough.  I, I do have a, I do, I am, I am going to do a hoist just simply because I think it's a good  idea to have one just in case I need it again, you know, not getting any younger. I don't want to,  I don't want to hurt my back again. And I've got one of those lift carts and that thing is,  I couldn't have gotten all the stuff moved in without it because that big workbench with the  pulled out stores, all I did was take the loose stuff off the thing and jack it up with that  sucker. And off we go. Heck yeah. They're expensive, but they're worth it.  El Fuego's got a question. Uh, the shop audio system, what, what kind of audio system do we  need in the shop? Um, I don't have an audio system in the shop at the moment. I've got an old  receiver sitting out there in the way that I need to hook some speakers up to, I guess I just need  to build some speakers. I just need to actually make some shop speakers. What I'd like to do is  use some of those, uh, those, um, uh, those panels like with the, um, the installation phone.  Yeah. Put the little exciters on them and hang about 10 of those from the ceiling.  Oh yeah. That'd be cool. So no matter where you are, you've got a speaker.  You know what I use right now, an old cheap soundbar we used to have,  and I just, I hung it on the wall and I had car stereo in there, right. But people, it carries  so much further with car stereo and people, I was getting some complaints. I was like, you know,  we'll dial this back just enough where I can hear it and, and it'll be good enough.  Brian still says no receiver in the shop, but you're doing a really good job of dust collection.  You know what, if it's an old one. So the, um, I have, um, a Denon receiver, something fancy was  my home theater receiver for the, for the home theater system inside the house. And every time  we get a lightning strike, I would lose an HDMI channel on it. And that thing got to the point  where the only the front panel channel was working and it was like, well, so that one is the one  that's out in the garage. And if it dies, it dies. David, thank you so much for the $10 super chat.  That means the world to me. Um, it's, it's so awesome to get that kind of support from people  and it's not just the money, it's the support and it's just really awesome. Thank you so much,  David. Um, so Rob, let me show you this right here. At least if I can find a picture of this,  give me just a second. Um, so what are some of the things you've been included in a shop? What do  you, what do you think Sanders? What are some things, how important is a refrigerator to you?  Um, a refrigerator is not so important to me because my shop is my garage and it's right  next to the house. But depending on how far your house is away from your shop, you don't want to  be walking in mud possibly. I definitely consider it because you're going to need some kind of  frosty beverage, you know, maybe a hard iced tea or something, you know. And for you, it's more about  the, um, the getting back and forth as opposed to anything else.  What, see, to be honest with you, I drink enough of these Coke Zeros that I don't need to be close  to them. Honestly, I should just keep water in there, like cold waters. That would be my best  bet because you know what, you know how it gets when you get out there and if you're not watching  it, man, you will just start pounding these, these colas down before you go. And it's like,  then you feel worse and yeah, it's a big ordeal. Deviant for life is correct. I need a maker's  mark cabinet. Right. All right. So here's what it looks like on the inside. Um, it is a 24 by 30  and I've got eight 5,000 lumen LED lights. Uh, I was just going to say it, it looks very well lit  because it looks like you shot this at night. Yep. I was standing outside, took a picture at  night. So it's pretty, it's well lit. Uh, let's see here. Oops. That is not what I wanted to show  you. Let's see if I can find another picture here. So yeah, the lighting is, uh, the lighting  is pretty solid. It does the, does the job. So that's, that's some pretty good lights as far  as the size goes. So there is a, there's a shot of it, uh, with my truck in it. Okay. So from the  back corner, so lots of, uh, lots of room, plenty of room to get the vehicle in as well. Uh, here's  a shot with, here we go. Just for kicks and giggles. I got the entire fleet in it. There you go.  Um, if I had been driving the cars and parking them myself, instead of waving me and family  members, I could have probably gotten all three of them in a hundred percent, but the two Kia's  back and forth back in front of each other, just about two inches shy of the garage door closing.  So, so just for kicks and giggles, I want to see if I can get the entire fleet in there. So that's  my, my kid's car and my wife's car, all of them fit in there as well. So that's, that's a load  of fun. Um, I've got, uh, I'm adding some toolboxes guts, got a pair of these from Harbor freight.  I'm going with the blue color. It's kind of a channel. It's a color theme. So, right. Um,  I got the kicker stool. Thanks a lot to the guys. Yeah. So, uh, thanks to kicker for hooking me up  with some stools. That's always nice. And let's see here. Where is the, here we go.  Ooh. Oh, a soft stop, man. I've been saving up four months and I got a soft stop.  And so the better feeling in the word, like you, I don't think people enjoy cause they,  they use the credit cards or whatever, but when you have to save monthly for something  and then you finally get it, dude, it just feels so good. Yeah. I've been saving up for a while  for that. And I've saved up and I got the soft stop. And so it's in there now. I just need to  get the dust collection. Um, just need to get the dust collection up. Yes. They gave me a stool  sample. Uh, just need to get the dust collection up and running. And as soon as the dust collection  is up and running, um, I'm going to start running stuff through the saw. So, but I'm excited about  the saw stop. It was a bit of a pain to put together. Um, I had some problems with the  shipping. Um, yeah, I'm definitely Jeff. I I'm considering going to a track saw simply because  my garage is so small and I need to maximize space. And to be honest with you, I've built so  few enclosures compared to what I normally do that I'm a track saw. Maybe the way to go for me.  I thought long and hard about it. I had a good conversation with Stu from Stu's custom shop there  and he's a big track saw fan. And, um, and a track saw would have, would have been an option,  but I just kinda like years ago decided that one day I want to, I want to save up enough money to  buy a saw stop. And that's what I did. Uh, it's not the top of the line saw stop by any stretch  of the imagination. This is their, um, they have four models. Uh, their beginning model is, Hey,  Baba, thank you so much for the super chat, man. Appreciate that a whole lot. Um, the entry level  model saw stop is, um, is like the saw that I, that I had, it folds up. So I, so it's a  worksite saw. You can roll it to the worksite. Fantastic saw. It's like 1800 bucks, right? It's  like, okay, mine was like less than 300. So, um, uh, Andy, good to see you. I'm glad to see you  pop in. Um, but, um, and so, but that little saw, it did a, it did a good job. It was getting old  as we get into wearing out. I sold it this last weekend to somebody. So, um, you know how things  go. It was kind of getting rid of the old tools, kind of sad to see it go. Cause I've done so much  cool stuff with that thing. But, um, but having a good solid saw is just something I've been  wanting for a long time. Uh, the next one up was the one that I got. That's what they call  the contractor saw. So this is, um, um, you know, cast iron top. Uh, it's, uh, uh, the motor is on  a belt, so it's belt driven. Right. And, uh, you know, it sits on a base, it sits on rollers. I  opted to expand it a little bit. So I got three feet of cut width on it. I can rip three feet  wide. Uh, and the next level up, they call their, um, they call that the cabinet saw, right? Uh,  forget what they call it, but then the next level was the professional saw like that professional  saw. You can get like a 10 horsepower motor on that thing. And it's like, that's, that's brutal,  but the there's two uplevel ones. You got to have two 20 in order to do it. I don't have any two 20  in the garage. It's a 60 amp service. It's got plenty of, plenty of juice for what I'm going to  do. I just don't have any two 20 plugs and that's fine. Yeah. What did this, the soft stop is going  to be super nice. It's even, even their entry level stuff is comparable to some of the nicest  Deltas out there. So at least that you can buy at a regular store. Yeah. I mean, this is, um,  my kind of feeling on the table saw is that, uh, yeah, two 20, two 40, it's, it's, it's double  or whatever. Right. Is it, is it baseline one, one 10 or is it one 20? I mean, it's somewhere  between the two, but it is right. It's always, it's somewhere in between there. It's not always  one 20. Right. Yeah. But, uh, I added some, I had to add a cord reel to the ceiling. I've got plugs  in the ceiling, which is real nice. And so, uh, so I'm not going to be stumbling over extension  cords. And that's probably the one thing I'm looking forward to the most, because I can't  tell you how many times I've knocked over the lights that I'm using in the garage and busted  one of those $20 light bulbs that you got to use for photography. And so there goes a $20 bill.  Great. Yeah. I've considered putting track lighting in here just, you know, so I can spotlight  different areas. I don't know. I I'd like to have a different solution than what I have doing videos.  I've been thinking about that. That'd be kind of cool. Wouldn't mind having a, having some,  some lights hanging off some tracks. So go to Home Depot and get some Unistrut and start  hanging some lights. Right. Well, all right. Well, Rob, what have you been up to on your  channel lately, man? Dude, I didn't have a video this week cause I've been working on stuff,  but I'm, I'm doing a crazy test. Stuff may blow up. The patrons have already seen some of the  what's going on, but it's going to be cool. I don't want to spill the beans just yet on that,  but I'm working. I've got an aerylic streamer, like the one, you got the amp, I got the streamer.  So, so that'll be coming up soon. I have some good ideas for that. I also just got a 1500 watt  pure sine wave inverter. So a company sent me that, or they reached out to me. I was like,  you know what? This is perfect because this is the perfect way to compare lithium to AGM.  I can just, I can do the test with a kilowatt meter and we can see what's what. That sounds  dangerous. Yeah, definitely. That sounds dangerous. All right. So I got a question about, about that  for you right there. So right now for my amp dyno set up, and if you saw the video that I just  dropped, I tested a JP8 and I ran out of juice. So I've got one of those hundred amp power supplies.  It's a power max. Yes. The PM4 100 amp hooked up to a Walmart battery, right? Nothing special.  They're just, just walked in. What's the biggest battery you got? I'll take it. Put it in the cart.  Let's go. So, so basically that thing, you get about 900 watts and it runs out of juice, right?  That's about all I can get out of one of those things. And I happen to have two plugs on separate  circuits, 20 amp circuits, and we're in that far corner, right? One of those plugs is all by itself  and somehow the electricians ran through. I was like, oh yeah, there's only one on that one.  Great. That's actually perfect, right? So now I can hook up two of those. If I had two of those,  what kind of battery system do I need in order to, in order to support a bigger amplifier? Because  I'd love to be able to test the 3000 watt amp. I don't know if I'll ever be able to,  maybe 1500 will be my max. So right now I have four H8 Walmart AGMs.  And I can test 3000 watts with those four and the 100 amp power max. I switched to the power max.  The Cosell, I could do a little more. No, no, no, no. The Cosell, I could do 3000 watts with those  four. The power max I can do like 2500 ish watts with those four. But I mean, I would consider  lithium. Dude, they're so expensive, but it's expensive to get four of those batteries.  Right. Though the power max owner's manual said that they didn't recommend using them  with lithium batteries. Are they wrong? Well, I mean, you can control how far you want to  charge it. So you're choosing your voltage. Right. Right. Because you can adjust the voltage  on the power max. Yeah. Yeah. And that power max also has just a current and then a charge state.  Right. Right. It has, you can set it to like, like say the, the, it's like 14.8. So max charge,  you can set it to 14.8, put it on charging or only charge of 14.8.  So Adir, if I ever find my 10 millimeter, I'll let you know. Oh, hey, I just, I, there was a  question on the screen I wanted to ask you. Let me go to that question real quick before we get  back to the battery. A bandsaw. What are your thoughts on a bandsaw in a DIY audio shop?  I love them. I sold mine because it took up two inch room. I had a really nice 12 inch Craftsman,  an old one, and that I got from a buddy, but man, it just took up some, you got to shop though. So  I'm working out of a garage. You're working out of a shop. If I had a shop,  100%, I'm having a bandsaw in there just for not, not only for cutting like small things,  but cutting curves or curves. Yeah. It's just nice to have them. Yep. Yep. Cause he, you know,  you can make your own, uh, make your own curve templates. Jason, I forgot what size the battery  was. I just, the biggest on the bottom shelf at Walmart, whatever that was, it was a thousand  gazillion cold cranking amp battery. It was a huge one. Um, but, uh, okay. So the way those  power max inverters work for those who don't know, there's two controls on it and there are this,  you know, they're, they're recessed inside the frame. You got to take a little screwdriver  in there. You can hardly see it. You got to get your light out on your phone so you can see what's  going on. And one of them is a switch between the two modes. Uh, one mode is a charging mode,  which is kind of its intended use. And once it's designed to do is to actually take care of the  battery, right? It's a battery maintainer and charger. And the idea here is it's made for  someone who has like a mobile, um, um, um, on a mobile home, uh, an RV, right. Or a boat or  something. So you, you, you pull in, you plug this thing in, you charge your batteries. That's  what it's made for. And, um, and then it has, um, uh, uh, a potentiometer so you can set the voltage  down to 12 up to about like, like 15 or 16. I think you can really crank it up. Um,  and so, and so the other mode, uh, the voltage control does the same thing, but the other mode  is just like full on power. We're going for it. Right. It's not what it's not because the first  mode it'll, it'll actually monitor the batteries. It'll, it'll give them a lot of juice until they  get them topped off and they just kind of maintain them. And so during the test, you put it on the,  let's go mode, right? You put it on go mode. Um, and I'm always a little freaked out by that  because I remember when I was a kid growing up on the farm, I was out in the tobacco patch with a  hoe, the tool, not the, uh, um, uh, hoe and tobacco. I heard this loud explosion come from  the shop right next to the tobacco patch. And I thought to myself, Oh crap, something's happened,  you know? And you know, it sounded like a gun going off and it was a battery that blew up.  Um, and it's like, you know, my dad was in there with it and he didn't seem to rattle about it  cause nothing held old man like that. Nothing rattles him. It scared the hell out of me.  I thought someone had gotten shot and so that's left me scarred. And so I'm scared of blowing  up a battery. Uh, and so I want to not blow up any batteries and I want to be able to test  amplifiers up to about 3000 Watts. Yeah. You just need more. As long as you don't overcharge them,  you're going to be okay. Cause you know, a lead acid is just as volatile if you overcharge it  as a lithium. Gotcha. So no, this was, this was on a, you know, it was on one of those boosters  that you plug into the wall so you can jump a battery off. Uh, you know, I mean, it wasn't,  it wasn't on a, on a, on a battery tender or anything like that. Yeah. And the good thing  about like, if you're doing DIY lithium or you're buying a lithium, a lot of those have battery  management systems, edgy and batteries do not. So you there protection circuits in place to stop  bad things from happening. Now, if you're doing DIY lithium and you don't have any kind of active  balance or any kind of BMS, uh, you're talking something totally different. Right. Oh, well. And  the thing is I noticed, and I've learned this from watching your channel for sure. A lithium  battery is expensive, but that little expensive lithium does what four big AGMs do and they cost  the same and take up less space. And I've, I've got more that I want to play with. It's just  a matter of making the bus bars, which I could use my drill press for if I had bought a good drill  press, uh, about the cheap Harbor freight one, do not recommend 100% do not recommend that's the  bench top one. Right. The little bench top one. Yeah. If I, you know, we earlier you, before you  jumped on, we talked about the drill press and our, our, our kind of our, our metric was you have  enough space for one thing, like a beer fridge or a drill press. What are you going to have?  Right. Yeah. You know, um, that kind of thing. And so I think, okay, really nice drill press  or our bandsaw, which would you pick bandsaw for sure. All right. Yeah. Because you can use  the blocks for, you know, to get a straight drill. If you need to. Yeah.  Our buddy Andy says he likes the life PO four. That's the lithium Ferris phosphate or something  like that. Uh, better power per density, but aren't as safe. Uh, BMS are the key with any  lithium set up. All right. Compressors. What are your thoughts on air compressors?  Have you tried the California? Yeah. When they were building the garage, they used, um, the  quiet one from Harbor freight. Yeah. And it was just like, it was really quiet. I was shocked  and, uh, and it did just fine. So dude, I've had good, I've had very good luck with Harbor freight  compressors. Uh, even the oil is kind of the ones that people hated back in the day. They've been  pretty solid. Although I have went through two pancake ones, but let me tell you, I abused the  crap out of those things. There was no care, no maintenance, no nothing. And, uh, they just  burned a piston. I just ran them till they, till they died. Oh, here we go. Clipped on the wrong  one. I went to that. What do you think about this one? A one, two, three block. You familiar with  a one, two, three block using the machine shops a lot. They're like a one inch by two inch by three  inch and they have holes measured out in them. Yeah. I've seen those and thought I might want  one. So, um, one thing that I did get and I saw it on your channel, the, um, and mine's a Klein  actually the little magnetic, um, level gauge that you put on your table saw. So you can, uh,  make sure your, your angles are perfectly right. So, so I've got one of those as well. So that's  definitely a must have little tiny tool. So, yeah, it's definitely like, you know, plus you've got to  true your saw when you set it up and it's going to be useful for that. So, yep. Well, all right,  Rob, thank you for popping in. We are, we are past an hour and that's usually where that, uh, usually  where I want to stop. So, and I'm looking forward to seeing what you're about to blow up on your  channel. Something, always something. I'm not sure what my next video is going to be. It might be the  actual video where I introduced the shop to the, uh, to the channel. So, um, and Stu is right.  These, uh, woodpecker and Incra make some really nice stuff. Uh, love to add some of those to the,  uh, like to get out of the Harbor freight, freight T squares and go to the woodpecker and the Incra.  So, all right, ladies and gentlemen, we will see you next week over on Nick's channel,  assuming he gets his power back. I'm the DIY audio guy and I am out later. 