 What's up? I'm Drew Paul Bell, and today what I want to talk about are the five stages of  the architectural design process as they're legally defined by the AIA here in the US,  the American Institute of Architects. So they define five different stages of the design  process. Schematics, design development, also known as DD, construction documents, known  as CD, bidding, and then construction administration, which is also known as CA. So in schematics,  schematics are basically like what you do in school, actually. You come up with the  general schematic design of the building. But what that means is it's like what the  building looks like, its general appearance, its general shape, its general form. In order  to get to schematics, you have to kind of have a fundamental understanding of what the  materials are going to be. But in terms of like minor details, you don't have those figured  out yet. Yeah, you also probably wouldn't have things like the systems, like AC, air  conditioning systems, the finer points of structural systems you probably don't have  figured out yet either. It's very, it's kind of surface level, relatively, because it's  naturally just the sage that has to come first. And it's very comparable to what you have  to present in school. This happens a lot faster than what happens in the time it takes in  school. But it is what it is. It's really the design portion, it's where you're coming  up with the new ideas, imagery, that kind of thing. Next is DD, design development.  Once you have pitched this idea to the client, which might be in the form of like renderings  and a floor plan probably, now you take this into design development. Design development  is where you start to figure out the finer points of materials, of structure, is where  you lay in the air conditioning systems, water systems, that kind of thing. Maybe some wall  section details. Then once that's approved, the next stage is construction documents.  These take the same design development things and just kind of take them farther. You get  more detail, like construction details is really what it's about. It's about the kind  of things that you need to build the building. How the wall meets the floor plate. How all  the windows, how each of the windows fits into the walls. Finer points like details.  This is where you get into the tedium of it all, where you're doing drawings about everything.  So that's construction documents. Then that's kind of the finishing, ideally, theoretically,  done with the drawings. That's when you start building. Now there's another stage called  bidding. Bidding is when contractors come in, you give them bidding documents. This  is not necessarily the full CDs, sometimes this can be after design development, but  it's when you give documents to contractors where you feel like you can give them enough  information that they can look at the drawings and tell you how much it's going to cost them  to build it. So they're going to need probably a wall section detail, sections, floor plans,  all the elevations, some specifications in terms of materials, things used, that kind of stuff.  This is really about how much can you communicate to them to give an accurate bid, an accurate  projection of how much it's going to cost. This is something where you send it out, you  get in a couple of bids, and then you and the owner, you as the architect and the owner,  go over them and decide who is going to be awarded the commission. Then there's what's  called construction administration, CA. In CA, this is where you as the architect are  making sure that the building gets built right. Also, because building a building is so complex,  you're probably going to run into some problems. This is the point where contractors are going  to call you up and say things like, look, the tile you specified is three times more  expensive than what we thought it was, we found a comparable thing in between, how about  we do this instead. Or, in this renovation project, the counter is at an angle, it's  crooked, it's really not straight, and you're going to see it on the tile, can we move it?  And you're like, yeah, sure. You might run into situations where a detail doesn't quite  line up the way you expected it to be, and maybe you have to redo a drawing. This is  construction administration. It's a little bit more fluid, because it's kind of a back  and forth. You might find problems, and then you've got to correct them, and you've got  to kind of think on your feet. So that's CA in a nutshell. It's where you get the building  to the final product, where you take it from drawings and make it real. And you, as the  architect, are sort of like an overseer for that. You're just kind of making sure it gets  done right, because at this point, the contractors are the ones dealing with it every single  day, building the thing. So then, as soon as that's done, then you can get your certificate  of occupancy. That's when you can go occupy the building, and it's ready to go, and been  officiated, officially approved by the city or the government, whoever enforces those  kinds of things and allows that to happen. So these are the five different legal sections  of the architectural design phases of the architectural design process. And it's not  the most inspiring video in the world, the most inspiring content, but these are things  that you have to understand to go be a successful architect, and they're things you're going  to have to be operating within, whether you're an intern or a principal. So understanding  this sooner than later is definitely good. I hope that this helps, and I will talk to  you next time. 