 In this lesson we're going to look at causation which is one of the most  important aspects of criminal law and something that will come up in subjects  in years to come in your LLB program. Causation considers who was at fault for  whatever the crime that has been committed. Now there are two main types  of causation that we must consider. Firstly you have factual causation which  is the less problematic one where A shoots B, B dies. There is no intervening  events, there's no other person involved. The cause of B's death is A's shooting  him. So B would not have died but for A's actions. Now causation in this form is  considered the but-for test. You normally consider it as a sine qua non  of a particular act. In this case it's quite straightforward. One person has  killed another. The more problematic is the second form of causation which is  legal causation. So what exactly must we consider in relation to legal causation?  On the one hand this all deals with the conduct of the person. So the conduct  itself need not be the main cause as in it need not be the immediate cause of  the death or the final act itself of killing the victim. And it also does not  need to be the only cause because of course in relation to this factor of the  main cause as well as the only cause we can consider that as being factual  causation itself. There is no intervening events, there is no other parties  involved. It's a quite straightforward aspect of one person committing a crime  against another. But what it must be in relation to conduct is either the  operative cause or the substantial cause. And once the defendant has started  these chain of events he is legally responsible in some way shape or form.  However having said that there are instances where intervening events or  novus actus intervenience takes place and the responsibility or the liability  imposed on the defendant might be mitigated or completely removed. When do  these events occur? On the one hand you might have situations where a third  party intervenes in such a substantial manner that the defendant cannot now be  possibly considered as the operative or the substantial cause of the death of  the crime. There might be an act of the victim himself. We will have a look at  certain escape cases where people have jumped off of certain places or certain  vehicles in an unforeseen manner. It might also be acts of God or nature  things which are unpredictable and were outside the control of the defendant, the  victim or any other party for that matter. However it must be noted that in  order to break the chain of causation it must be free, deliberate and informed. And  another component of it is it must be so unforeseeable by any party including the  defendant that there is no means or there is no justification in imposing  liability on the defendant himself. Now if we consider a few examples in  relation to the acts of the victim itself where there are escape cases or  instances of escape where the victim injures himself trying to escape from  the defendant. There might be instances where this is so unforeseeable, the  mechanism by which the victim has tried to escape is so unforeseeable that you  cannot hold the defendant liable or responsible for the injuries or death  that occurs. Conversely you can also consider medical interventions. Now in  relation to medical intervention we must also keep in mind that the negligence  purported can only break the chain of causation if it is so independent of the  defendant's acts and maybe even so independent of what is required and  completely outside the realms of what is necessary that it was potent enough of  causing the death. Now there are a string of cases in relation to this which are  available in your case summaries. I urge you to have a look at them and peruse  them in great detail. So we had a brief look at causation and the various  elements of it what factual causation means and what legal causation means as  well as where both of those types of causation affect the defendant in  relation to his liability towards the victim. We also had a brief look at  intervening events and their effects on the crime itself and where the defendant  stands in relation to acts by a third party, a victim or nature itself. Now the  next lesson we are going to move on to is the secondary component of a crime  itself, the secondary element of a crime itself which is the mens rea.  Hi, my name is Shaveen Bhandar Nayak. Thanks a lot for watching this video on  YouTube. For the complete course make sure you click the link on the left. Also  for an exclusive discount to YouTube viewers enter the coupon code YouTube at  the course page. All the very best with your studies and good luck with your  exams. See you in the next lesson. 