 Fractions are used to describe parts of wholes mainly. Here I have a circle drawn and I have  subdivided the circle into four sections and I have shaded three of them. Now let's talk  about a fraction that would describe the part of the circle which is shaded. Now notice  that three parts are shaded out of all four parts. The fraction describing the situation  is three over four or three-fourths. Now the top number, the three, is called the numerator  of the fraction and the bottom number, four, is called the denominator. The numerator tells  how many items we have and the denominator tells how many items are in a whole. So we  have three items shaded out of four items in the entire circle. That's the idea. So  three-fourths. Now fractions actually come in several forms. These are examples of proper  fractions. Now the prevailing characteristic here with proper fractions, take a look at  the size of the numerator and denominator in all of these. What you notice is that the  numerator is smaller in every one of these. The numerator is smaller than the denominator.  You see, so in all of these cases, these describe a piece of a whole, truly a part of a whole  because the bottom number describes how many are in a whole. You see, one whole item of  whatever we're talking about here and we have a number in the numerator which is smaller  than that, so parts of wholes. These are called improper fractions and in each one of those,  the numerator is a number which is larger than the denominator. That's the prevailing  characteristic in improper fractions. It would also be improper if we had a fraction with  a numerator which was the same number as the denominator. But most often, if we see improper  fractions, they are like this. The numerator is a bigger number than the denominator. Now  in improper fractions, these are fractions which are describing value that is larger  than a whole because after all, in five-thirds, five is a number of items we have and a one  whole item contains three items, you see, contains three of these. So we have more than  a whole for all of these. These are examples of mixed numbers. Mixed numbers are numbers  that are composed of a whole numbered part and a fraction part and we read them like  this. This is read three and one-half. Notice the word and between the whole numbered part  and the fraction part. This is read two and two-fifths. This is read four and one-eighth.  This is read one and one-fourth. It turns out that improper fractions and mixed numbers  can be describing the same value. And let's take a look at that situation. I have drawn  here three circles and in this circle, I have divided into four parts. In fact, in all of  them, I have divided the circles into four parts. And here, all four parts are shaded.  Here, all four parts are shaded. And here, only one of the four parts is shaded. We can  actually describe the situation that we see here in two different ways. One having to  do with or related to the idea of improper fraction and the other having to do with the  notion of mixed number. Let's take a look at what I'm talking about. If we think about  the number of little pieces that are shaded, the number of fourths that are shaded, I have  four-fourths here, another four-fourths here for a total of eight-fourths that are shaded  in those two circles, and another one-fourth over here. So, that's a total of nine-fourths  that are shaded in all three circles. So, nine-fourths is an improper fraction that  can be used to describe the shaded parts of all of these circles. Now, let's look at the  situation another way. We've got, let's see, we've got one whole circle shaded here. We've  got one whole circle here, that's two whole circles, plus we've got one-fourth of another  circle. So, we have two and one-fourth circles that are shaded. So, the shaded portions of  these circles can be described using the mixed number two and one-fourth. Now, if it is the  case that nine-fourths can be replaced by, or has the same value as, or is equal to two  and one-fourth, then there must be a way for us to convert nine-fourths into two and one-fourth,  and a way for us to convert two and one-fourth into nine-fourths. And let's talk about that  a little bit. There are a couple of ways of looking at the situation going in that direction.  That is, in changing nine-fourths to two and a quarter, two and one-fourth, we can  think this way. We can think, well, gee, let's look at the circles for a moment. Here, the  shaded business can be described as four-fourths. If we were going to write a fraction involving  this, because after all, we have four shaded regions out of a total of four in the whole  circle. And here, for this other one, we also have four-fourths, you see, for the shaded  part. And in this third circle, we have one-fourth. Now, four-fourths is the whole circle that's  shaded here, and four-fourths here is the whole circle. We have one circle here, one  whole circle here, and one-fourth of a circle here. So we have two and one-fourth. See,  two and one-fourth. But there must be a better way to show it. This is a nice little illustration,  but maybe there's another way. And there certainly is. And that way is an arithmetic process.  And it's a process that works like this. Remember in the last chapter when we talked about whole  numbers, we said that in the division process, we can request the division of whole numbers  using a fraction. And if we just think about it like that, think about the fraction like  this. This is nine divided by four. You see, now, so this is a fraction bar, but it also  is a request for division, or it can be thought of like that in order to make the change from  improper fraction to mixed numbers. So we have, let's see, nine divided by four, well,  that's four into nine. Let's see, four into nine goes two times. Two times four is eight.  We subtract and get one. So we have two wholes, you see, in this process, but one left over.  So we have two with one left over. Now that left over one, the remainder, is written on  top of the divisor to complete the fraction part of our mixed number. So this is written  as one-fourth, two and one-fourth, you see. So we have a whole numbered part and a fraction  part. The fraction part comes from the remainder over the divisor in this situation. So a good  way then to change an improper fraction to a mixed number. Now let's go back the other  way. In going the other way, in changing a mixed number to an improper fraction, once  again, we can think in several different ways. The two that we have here, we could subdivide  that into one and one and one-fourth. You see, and if we want to describe this in terms  of fourths, you see, we're talking about the entire circle, or four-fourths of the circle,  four-fourths of this circle, and one-fourth, and four, four, how many fourths do we have?  You see, we have a total of nine-fourths in this situation. That's a way to look at it.  But I think a better way is like this. We can actually say that, well, I'm going to,  I'll show you the fast track way here, and then we'll talk about it a little bit. But  it's to multiply four times two to get eight, and then add one. So it's, you're kind of  going like this. Four times two to get eight, and then you add the one to get nine-fourths.  That's the manipulative process. When you multiply four times two to get eight, what  you're doing is you're calculating the number of fourths there are in two. You see, every  one of these rascals, every one of these whole numbers, every whole number that's in two  has four-fourths. So the total number of fourths that we have are, we have a fourth, we have  four-fourths in every one of these. So four times two would be eight-fourths for the two  in the whole-numbered part. And then we add the one-fourth for a total of nine-fourths  describing all of the shaded regions. Okay. Let's practice the idea of changing from mixed-number  to improper fraction, improper fraction to mixed-number. In these, we want to change,  we want to change the division problem. And if we go through the division, we will be 