 Hello, welcome to my video on government intervention in markets. For anyone who's been watching  the whole series, this is the last one. Woohoo! It's part of the markets and market failure  section of Economics AS Level with AQA. There are lots of reasons for government intervention  in a market. One major one is to correct market failure. In the previous video we looked at  all the different types and causes of market failure and now we're going to look at how  to correct them. Another reason for intervention is to achieve more equity. For example, it's  not very fair if some people have got millions and some people are living on the streets  with absolutely nothing. So the government does lots of things to try to improve the  balance in the economy. The final reason for intervention is to improve the UK's economic  performance. Obviously this is more macroeconomic than microeconomic but it's still good to  know that this is a reason for intervention. There are lots of different forms of government  intervention. One major one is legalisation and regulation. So this protects a variety  of things. For example, it protects workers by giving them maximum working hours, minimum  wage. I think there's a certain limit on the amount of time you can work in a year.  You've got to have a certain amount of holiday. And this is to prevent the abuse of workers  and stuff like that. We've also got trade unions which help this further. Though obviously  when trade unions get too strong this could in essence become a form of market failure  itself because the workers are getting paid too much for their job. Increasing competition  is another thing that comes under legalisation and regulation. So this is the prevention  of monopolies through things like the competition commission. We don't want monopolies for the  reason explained in the previous video because when we have monopolies prices are too high,  quality is too low, not enough choice for consumers, stuff like that. We also have government  regulators who impose price controls. We're going to come onto that later in the video  but that's things like maximum and minimum prices. Obviously in a free market we have  underproduction of merit goods and public goods just don't tend to be produced at all.  So that's a market failure there. This means that the government has to provide some of  these goods and services or has to pay private sector firms to do these jobs.  Moving on now to financial intervention we're going to look at a few diagrams for these  later but the big ones are indirect taxes which raise the price of demerit goods. So  if we don't want people smoking we put a big indirect tax on it and it means supply has  to fall and price has to rise. And we'll do all about the taxation and the splitting of  who pays what later. Subsidies are basically the opposite so that lowers the price of merit  goods. Then we have tax relief which enables research and development so companies can  get more efficient methods of production, stuff like that. We can try to achieve economic  and productive efficiency. And then we have taxation and welfare payments to redistribute  income to increase the equity within the economy. These taxes tend to be progressive, we'll  come onto this later because it means that the rich have to pay a higher percentage of  their income so this means that we can give more to the poor people. And finally we have  intervention to close the information gap. So the government tries to improve the information  so that consumers have got all the information before they buy. Good producers really can  see the true cost and benefit of the goods. This is obviously really important when we've  got positive and negative externalities which lead to goods being priced incorrectly in  terms of the socially efficient output. There are lots of effects of intervention, we're  going to have a slide about each of these in a second, it's just a list so you can see  them here. I believe there are six effects of intervention. Public goods, externalities,  correcting information failure, price intervention, regulation and control of monopolies and the  redistribution of income. Public goods are non-excludable and non-rival which means that  they don't tend to be produced in the private sector because they're unprofitable to supply.  This means that the free market totally fails to provide important public goods which is  complete market failure. This means that the government has to provide them and to provide  them the government needs to have the money to do so, it means it has to tax the people  in the economy because obviously the government requires funding to be able to supply these  public goods. So in terms of correcting market failure the government has to supply public  goods. Externalities are obviously a really big issue in terms of market failure and stuff  like that with positive and negative externalities meaning that the market mechanism output is  either far higher or far lower than the socially efficient output. We have lots of different  ways of trying to correct this. One of these is regulation. Regulation is rules to the  firms to make sure that they try to keep their negative externalities to a low. So for example  there might be regulation saying you can only pollute up to a certain amount, you can only  use trees which were dying anyway. I don't know what sort of regulation you might have  but stuff like that, try to reduce negative externalities. Pollution permits are the big  things nowadays. These are permits which allow firms to pollute up to a limit and these permits  can be traded between firms, countries, whatever. So say I had a permit which allowed me to  emit 100 of pollution, I don't know what measurement you'd use, and I only used 50, I could sell  the other 50 to another company which is polluting more so it's really beneficial for me and  other firms to keep our pollution to a low whereas firms that have higher pollution have  higher costs and may end up getting kicked out of the market. So this is an incentive  for firms to stay clean. Taxes are generally put on the firm rather than the consumer but  the amount that's paid by the firm and the consumer differs depending on whether it's  an elastic good or an inelastic good. The one that I've put here is for an inelastic  good, for example cigarettes. Because the good is inelastic, ooh just got a text, because  the good is inelastic it means that the consumers will still be willing to pay for the good  no matter how high the price gets, therefore the firm that's producing it thinks aha I  may as well pass most of the tax on to the consumers. In the diagram there you can see  the split of who pays what tax and the one at the top is always consumers and the one  at the bottom is always producers. A good way to remember this is alphabetical order  going downwards, CP. That's how I remember it. Obviously with elastic goods it's a totally  different story and the producers end up paying the bulk of the tax. The value of the tax  in this diagram is the vertical distance between the two supply lines and we can see that the  impact this has had is raising the cost of production which has therefore caused supply  to shift left and demand to have a contraction meaning that the quantity supplied obviously  goes left, it decreases and obviously the price rises. Subsidies essentially have the  opposite effect. Quite often a government would give a subsidy to a firm and say this  subsidy is for you to keep clean. So it might not necessarily reduce the cost of production,  it might just cover the cost of production, the increased cost of keeping your firm clean.  They could ask you to define taxes or subsidies. In 2013 subsidy was the definition that you  had to do in the microeconomic paper. Moving on now to correcting information failure.  The government tries to protect consumers from being sold faulty products so we have  trading standards, stuff like that. I spoke to trading standards once because my enterprise  team was selling some candles, we weren't 100% sure if they were safe so we went to  trading standards to make sure we were supplying the consumers with products that were good,  safe, happy. They weren't really happy but they were safe. We also have compulsory labelling  which informs consumers on the actual costs of the consumption. So when we have our food  you can look at the food and see how much calories is in it, what fats are in it, stuff  like that so the consumers are totally aware of the true cost of what they're eating. Obviously  you're never going to have absolutely perfect information. I mean you can get close to perfect  information like with computers, when you're buying computers. I might just go into a shop  and buy a computer but you get some people that are there, they've compared all the different  things, the hard drive space, stuff like that. I've got no idea what they even compare but  they can get a really accurate view that what they're getting is the right thing for them.  So the government tries to make sure that all of this information is out there and is  accessible to the consumer. Then we have price intervention such as the  maximum prices, minimum prices and buffer stocks. Maximum prices are there to prevent  markets rising above a certain level so the price is kept at a certain amount. This does  lead to excess demand because more is demanded than is supplied because the demand and supply  are unable to meet at the equilibrium, market mechanism equilibrium. However this does increase  equity within the market because it means that everybody is able to buy a certain good  or service. For example with tickets to watch whoever you want to go watch in concert, if  they were higher it would mean that less people could afford the tickets but when these tickets  are priced at a lower amount it means that more people are able to buy the tickets. Obviously  this means we have to have a system of distribution of tickets, how are we going to decide who  gets the tickets. Usually you do first come first served and this could have an unexpected  impact of forming a black market. Then we have minimum prices, a big one for this is  food, it means that the farmers that are producing the food are able to do this at an economically  viable level because otherwise the price of food would be much too low and it would be  unsubstantial for them to be able to do it so we wouldn't get any food and we would all  starve to death. Another big one for minimum prices is minimum wage, it means that workers  have a minimum wage, it means that they don't get abused, they're getting a certain amount  because in some countries where there isn't a minimum wage workers will work hard for  hours and hours and hours and all they get is like 1p which is enough to buy like I don't  know what you can get for 1p in those countries but it's not enough for them to have what  you generally could be considered an acceptable standard of living so we have our minimum  prices and minimum wages. Buffer stocks are an intervention system that aims to limit  the fluctuations of the price of a commodity, for example grain and wheat and stuff like  that. If you look on the diagram there the authorities want to maintain the price of  p1 and they need to ensure that supply is at q1 for the price to be at this level. One  year due to good weather or something supply might be at q3, this means that the authorities  will buy q3 to q1 of supply so that the supply released to the market is q1 and the price  is retained at that level. Maybe the next year there's drought, bad weather so the supply  that the farmers get is only q2 so the authorities have got their supply they bought last year  and they sell it, they sell q2 to q1 of supply so the supply released to the market is q1  so it remains even at qp1. Obviously there are some issues with buffer stocks, the big  ones are how do we finance them, I mean if we're buying this much quantity of stuff it's  going to be really expensive so we have to increase taxation, obviously people get maddy  about that, stuff like that. Then we have the difficulties involved in establishing  a target price, how do we decide what p1 we want, what's fair for everybody. And finally  there are massive storage costs, if we're storing this much grain, this much wheat that  is expensive and also grain and wheat it's perishable, it might just die in the year  that we bought it which means that when supply is lower than what we want we can't sell this  stuff because it's all out of date, it's gone. So that is a major issue especially with agricultural  foods which is a main thing for buffer stocks. Moving on now to monopolies which are bad  because they have higher prices, poorer quality, we have our fat cats, there's fewer firms  so less employment, they can be less efficient because they've got no incentive to be more  efficient and save money, they create barriers to entry which means other firms can't get  in and there tends to be less innovation and can lead to an actually failing market which  obviously we don't want. Luckily for us we have a great government which has loads of  stuff to prevent this from happening, these monopolies trying to keep their monopoly power  to a minimum, remember monopoly power is when firms have 25% or more share of the market.  So we have the competition commission which is a government controlled scheme organisation  which ensures that mergers are in the public interest, it means that mergers and takeovers  which could lead to a monopoly, it prevents them from happening. Then we have some natural  monopolies which are in the government ownership, natural monopolies is when it makes economic  sense for there to be just one monopoly, for example supplying gas, water, electricity,  that sort of thing, it makes more sense for there to be just one firm doing it than lots  of different firms, lots of different pipes, stuff like that. Then we have privatisation,  the government may have these natural monopolies but it might want to pass it out because it's  more effective and cheaper for there to be a firm that's private than a government controlled  firm because private firms tend to have better organisation, better management, more incentive  to be efficient, stuff like that. For example we had Royal Mail, did Royal Mail go private?  I think it did, it might not have done so, don't 100% trust me there, but stuff like  that, I think we privatised Royal Mail for that reason. There was quite a lot of controversy  around the Royal Mail privatisation but I mean we have our business secretary Vince  Cable, he said it went quite well but then the shadow business secretary said it was  a first class disaster, what a joker! And finally we have the removal of barriers to  entry which encourages new firms to enter the market because obviously more competition  means more variety of goods and services, tend to be lower price, more efficiency, that  sort of thing. Barriers to entry, removing them, we could give firms loans at low interest  rate for start-up costs because obviously high start-up costs means it's very hard for  new firms to come into a market. We might prevent monopolies from putting their prices  down to a certain level because when monopolies see that new firms are coming into the market  they tend to put their prices right down which means the new firms simply can't compete.  With the redistribution of income the government tends to use progressive taxation which is  essentially the Robin Hood effect, it takes money from the rich and gives it to the poor.  The big thing that everyone thinks of when they think of progressive taxation is income  tax, obviously higher earners pay 40%, 45%, whatever they pay, whereas poorer earners  they don't pay any tax or if they pay some tax it's not very much. The government takes  this money and it tends to use it to provide welfare benefits, obviously welfare benefits  mean that poorer people who don't get so much income or they're unemployed, they get money  towards having financial security so they can afford food and clothing and stuff like  that. We also have our child benefits and other different benefits that we have for  the ill people, stuff like that, is to make sure there's equity within the economy because  obviously lack of equity is one major form of market failure.  However, we have a tragedy of our time, government failure. There's two slides of lots of different  types of government failure, there are eight total causes of government failure and we're  going to go through them now. Political self-interest is one biggie, it's because people who are  in power think, aha there's an election coming up, I'm going to do stuff that's good for  the people, not necessarily good for the economy but good for the people, they're going to  vote for me and we'll get back in. Then we have our special interest groups who spend  and tax inappropriately, for example, I mean there's nothing wrong with the Green Party  but if the Green Party got into power they might do massive taxation on people that simply  can't afford it just to spend it on getting more wind turbines. So obviously that might  not have the best effect for the economy so the government might have failed in its attempt  to give the economy the best chance at floating, being successful. Then we have policy myopia,  what a snazzy name that has. This is when politicians look for short term solutions  to the problems. So for example if there is an election coming up pretty quickly I  might think, I know I'm going to do something really short term, it's going to be really  fast, quick, everyone's going to think woohoo it looks good and then suddenly after the  election everyone's going to realise, oh my god, that's only a short term solution, we've  got obviously a long term issue. The thing I'm thinking of off the top of my head for  this is Gordon Brown when he sold all that gold, obviously it gave us money really quickly  but then the price of gold suddenly rose dramatically and we realised we'd made a massive loss there.  Another example here is subsidies. Obviously in the short term subsidies are great, they  mean firms can enter the market and produce more efficiently but they distort markets  really badly, they lead to inefficiency because firms think, ah I've got my subsidy, I don't  need to do that much, stuff like that. Then we have regulatory capture which is when industries  that are under the control of regulatory bodies favour producers rather than consumers. I'm  thinking here of Nazi Germany, I think it was when Hitler got into power he was quite  good friends with all the big business leaders so he did stuff that was really good for them  but it meant that consumers had to pay much higher prices, they obviously couldn't afford  it, it really wasn't very good. This is government failure because it means that the consumers  lose out. Then we have the disincentive effect. The big one that everyone thinks of here is  benefits. People see, oh look there's benefits, why should I work, I may as well get benefits.  So this disincentivises people from working so it leads to more unemployment because people  think I can earn just as much if I'm on benefits as if I'm working so they collect their benefits.  This leads to productive inefficiency within the economy because less is, not all the factors  of production are really being used to their full maximum output so we're not on the production  possibility boundary. Moving on to the second load of government failures, one is when the  policy decisions are based on imperfect information. For example, less and less people are voting  every year. The people that are voting tend to be the older people who are going to die  soon so the government obviously has to follow the older people's ideas which means that  the policies it implements aren't necessarily the ones that are going to be best for the  society of tomorrow. This is why it's really important for everybody to vote because the  government doesn't know what the public wants, people who vote don't necessarily understand  the policies, it means it's government failure because the wrong thing is happening for the  economy, it's not necessarily what will be best for the economy and the future generation.  Next we have the law of unintended consequences which is when the actions of consumers, producers  and the government actually has an unanticipated effect. Obviously we've already done the benefits,  we think ooh it's going to have equity but actually it leads to more unemployment. Another  one is a tax on a demerit good, for example cigarettes, we put a big tax on it, we think  ooh yay less people are going to smoke, it actually leads to tax evasion, smuggling,  black markets, stuff like that. The costs of actually implementing a policy could be  a major issue because obviously government intervention is quite expensive to administer  and enforce, we might say no one can smoke in buildings but people might still smoke  in buildings and it would be far too expensive for the government to actually be able to  monitor whether people are smoking in buildings. So the cost of making sure people don't might  be more expensive than the social cost I suppose of people not smoking in buildings. Finally  we have conflicting objectives, this is obviously much more prominent in the macroeconomic section  and we don't really want to dip into that here because it leads to a trade-off of policies.  I try to avoid this one mainly because it is verging on macroeconomics more I'd say.  For example with the fiscal policy, if we have lots of policies to increase employment  but then we've also got policies in place to decrease inflation, these are going to  be a major conflict because they basically cancel each other out which means it's just  rubbish really. You won't tend to get a question actually about government failure itself,  you'll be more likely to get a question that says evaluate costs and benefits of government  doing this, what are different ways that the government could do this and then you'd do  it so you'd write the government could put a tax and then after that you'd put however  this tax could have this effect, this unexpected effect, stuff like that. Make sure you slip  it in because you need both sides of the argument when you're writing an essay. That is the  end of the microeconomic videos, woohoo! AS level microeconomics is all the videos have  been made, if you want to watch them, go back over them, then just do that. I've got a set  of notes that have slightly more detail than what's in these videos if you want them so  just comment below. Hope these videos have helped you in some way and good luck in your  exams, have a lovely day, bye! 