 Hello everyone and welcome to our channel.  For this video, we will discuss the significance of this study. We will focus first on the  concept of significance, the criteria of significance, and we will give you writing  tips and examples for you to be able to write your significance of this study.  First, research significance is determined by our statement of the problem and its general and  specific contributions to the field of knowledge. Let's have first the key terms. If we say  significance, it suggests the importance or the contribution and the benefit that is to be  derived from our study. If we say study, this pertains to our research investigation which  is the critical examination or investigation using scientific analysis of any subject matter.  And we will have the significance of this study. This pertains to the reason, to the  justification that shares the contributions of our research work towards a body of knowledge.  Now, significance of this study could either be general significance or specific significance.  If it is general significance, it's about how our study will contribute to the whole society.  And if we say specific significance, this pertains to the enumerated individuals,  corporate bodies, government, and agencies and how they will benefit from our study.  Let's have the criteria of general significance. We have eight general significance of our study.  In this part, we may classify how our study will contribute. Either our study will contribute  to knowledge of an enduring practice if our study provides knowledge about an enduring  educational practice or it's a new research problem that has not been investigated in the  field. Our study could also provide the significance about theory testing if it  tests theories in different situation or population or if it verifies an existing theory.  Next, our study could have its significance coming from generalizability, especially for  quantitative researches having the following instances like testing if results is generalizable  to different population or practices, enhanced generalizability of result, replicating studies,  and involving other variables. Our study could also extend the understanding, especially if  our study is a qualitative one. If our study provides an understanding of the phenomena  or if our study provides an image or configuration of reasonable expectation,  it is an extension of understanding. Our study could also provide methodological advancement  as its significance. Either our study increases the validity and reliability of an instrument,  uses a method different from the usual methods used in the previous studies, or either our study  will be able to develop an analytical methodological technique and elaborate on  its usefulness in conducting a research. And of course, our study could also be significant  for current issues or social issues of immediate concern. And second to the last, our study could be  beneficial in terms of evaluating practice or policy. Either our study will evaluate a specific  practice or policy for decision makers at a given site or for external groups, either it will  determine the worth of a practice or policy, or our study may supply information for immediate use  in site decision making. And last but not the least, our study could be very significant  if it is about exploration of a new field of study, whereas we will be investigating  new areas of inquiry or we will examine phenomena that have not been studied previously.  Again, we have eight general significance of our study could be knowledge of an enduring  practice, theory testing, generalizability, extensions of understanding, methodological  advancement, current issues, evaluation of practice or policy, and exploration of a field.  In introducing your significance of this study, you may focus in any of the following if  it is applicable to your study. Make sure that you were able to mention and explicate  those general significance of your study. Here is the critical substance in explaining  this study's significance. So you should explain the need for the research and its  specific contribution. You should also justify the importance and the impact of your study.  Make sure that the study significance is aligned with the research problem and the gap you are  addressing. Make sure your beneficiaries and benefits are specified and these beneficiaries  and benefits are arranged in a hierarchical order. Make sure you state how to improve the  quality of life and well-being of people. Your research work may be significant for  educational institutions, policy makers, administrators, teachers, parents, students,  researchers, and national and international stakeholders, just to name a few.  But of course, you can add others as long as it's applicable to your study.  Now, how to write the significance of your study? First, you may provide an introductory paragraph  telling the general benefit from this study being conducted. Then, specify the benefits and the  beneficiaries and how they will benefit from your study. And then, you may write in italic case  identifying the individuals or group of individuals as beneficiaries. And in epiparagraph  form, you tell the ways the mentioned individuals will be able to benefit from either tangible  or intangible research product coming from the result of your study. And for the last part of  your study significance, make sure that you restate the overall research significance focusing  on the research gap. We already have a discussion about the research gap and I hope  you watch it for you to review types of research gap that your study might be addressing.  And please take note that efforts must be made to critically explain or describe the specific  benefits of this study to each of the identified or listed beneficiary. You may explain  how they will be able to benefit from your study.  And once again, we hope you learned something about research significance. Happy researching! 