 So a friend of mine and I started a conversation about customer service and a lot of these  product reviews that us as content creators, as YouTubers, as random dudes that like to  do reviews on products that they enjoy.  The conversation got started by my refrigerator set power video.  And I'd mentioned that the ice cool fridge that I'd had, had had an issue and that they  worked on it.  And I was, I had a number, I was able to talk to people and we'll talk about that in that  review if it's not already up.  But it brought up something a little bit with my lighting review, the last fit light bar  that I did.  Again, I'll put that link up there.  I've been really happy with it.  And moreover, I'm really happy with the correspondence with the company and the people at the company.  And I think that is so vital for any company made in the USA, overseas, it doesn't matter  if you don't have people and good people that enjoy their job and back up their product,  it doesn't matter.  And so one of the things that prompted me on that lighting reviews, I'm getting ready  to do a few more lighting reviews for the truck.  A couple of them are last for products.  I had the intentions of doing more of a comparison video since I had other companies reach out  to me.  Some of them I said no to.  I didn't think their level of quality and product met your guys's standard, right?  My audience, you guys have a standard.  You don't want to spend your money on crap.  And so when I was trying to do that comparison, I had a lady from Oxbeam get ahold of me.  Oxbeam, you should probably know it's almost a household name as far as an overseas LED  bar and light pod manufacturing companies.  They have a warehouse in California.  We're going to try to call it right now.  Because Cindy, after she got ahold of me, has not replied to a single email.  She has emailed me twice in the last year, but every time I respond to her email, I don't  get a response.  And I was looking forward to basically comparing Oxbeam, which is a very prominent overseas  produced company.  When I called them earlier, they just hung up on me.  It literally ended the call.  This is within their working hours.  It is only 2 in the afternoon Pacific time.  They opened very early.  Earlier I literally got hung up on.  So nobody answers.  Nobody answers their email.  Nobody answers the phone.  It's very interesting.  So I thought this was an interesting test, and I haven't actually called them yet, and  I wanted to see you do this on camera.  Like I said, I've been trying to get ahold of Oxbeam all week because Cindy has stopped  answering her.  Now, over the last couple of years, when I've got the emails from Oxbeam, it's always been  Cindy.  So I don't know if she has moved on and her email doesn't work, which does happen.  If you're in this industry and you do these reviews, you know that you deal with Tara  and then Tom and Cindy and Susie, and every couple of weeks or months or years when you  do reviews on long term or deal with the companies on multiple terms, you lose those individual  people.  But generally there's an account that they take over.  They send out a Massey bill, and they're like, Hi, I'm Bob, and I will be handling Max's  account now.  It happens.  I totally get it.  But with the non-response I got from Oxbeam or Cindy, and no one replying to their email,  I was curious, as we just did the Last Fit review, there is a California number for Last  Fit.  I'm going to see if anybody answers.  Again, it's to something that says Rancho.  Thank you for calling Last Fit.  We are open Monday to Friday, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Pacific Standard Time.  Which is now.  Right now we offer online customer service by email at cfatlastfit.com and on our website  by live chat.  To visit our website, please go to www.lastfit.com to find our.  Which is acceptable if the company has a last fit, like a chat, the message is a little long.  But at least something answers, even if it's automated.  Thank you for calling Last Fit customer service.  This call is being recorded.  If you do not wish to be recorded, please disconnect at this time.  Please hold to the next available agent.  I'll probably fast forward this in editing.  Thanks for calling Last Fit.  Yeah, I just had a quick question.  On your 3 inch light pods, I see you can change out the lenses.  Are your optics interchangeable as well?  I know some companies have a replaceable optic.  I know you don't sell it on there, but say I owned one of your fog lamps and one of your spot beams.  Would I be able to swap the optics inside?  Is that possible while I do the lens?  That one, I'm not sure. Let me double check that real quick.  Yeah, I appreciate it.  No, you can't.  You can only swap just the lens.  Just the lens. Alright, I appreciate it. Thank you so much.  You're welcome. Have a nice day.  You too.  And there you go.  I was going to fast forward that.  Their customer service answered before I really could.  I might probably do this video in real time.  So, my point is, if you can't get a hold of anybody, if there isn't anybody on the other end of this,  what does it matter how good a deal you got?  You spend $600 on a fridge and nobody answers your call when it goes kaput.  Should you have spent $1,200 on a fridge?  Should you have spent $1,000 on a light bar?  When you have issues with it, is there somebody going to be answering it?  Or, does the $160 light bar guy back up his product?  It's important.  Your money is important. My time and money is important.  I think it's important.  So, this is a quick little service announcement, public announcement of customer service.  And, yeah, quick and dirty, guys.  Let me know what you think.  Let me know if you are really a stickler with Made in the USA stuff.  I've done reviews on Made in the USA stuff where they just disappear into the scene.  When I've got a company there who I just spot called, got customer service without even having to wait.  Honestly, to call my local health department takes longer than that.  So, I don't know.  Love to hear from you guys. Hope you're all well.  Thanks for watching, guys, and we will see you down the road.  Thanks for all the love and support. You guys are amazing.  Please like, share, and subscribe.  Follow the adventure on social media, and we'll see you on the road. 