 People want the world to be simple, known and predictable.  Newtonian physics, Old Testament.  They want to believe it's this way so they can wrap their heads around it, but it's not  this way.  It's special relativity and quantum entanglement.  It's weird, counter-intuitive, and even contradictory.  We imagine our senses in a similar way, simplistically, like a water mill.  A running stream turns the water wheel, which turns the grindstone to mill the wheat.  Sound waves enter our ear canal, strike our eardrum, and the vibrations are interpreted  as sound by our brain.  But there is another way.  My name is Bob Lichtenberg, I'm deaf, and I enjoy music.  I became deaf when I was five.  It was really gradual.  By the time I was eight, I wasn't able to really hear people talking anymore.  I think I do remember becoming deaf.  So when the birds were singing, my friend who taught me can hear that, they said, just  barely.  And that's really the last time I remember hearing music.  A deaf person shouldn't be able to hear music, but they can.  Sound is vibrational information, and the body has ways of sensing this information  other than the ears.  Hands are particularly adept at this, and it's been found that the brain can rewire  its auditory cortex to receive input from the mechanoreceptors in the fingertips instead  of the auditory nerve coming from the ear.  Bob uses a mylar balloon to gather the musical vibrations in the air of the room and focus  them at his fingertips, like what our eardrum does for our inner ear.  While many, many deaf people use the balloon, what I discovered was that mylar and helium  was a better kind of balloon than latex and oxygen.  You're just a lot more sensitive to vibrations.  I've always been listening to music with a speaker, a small speaker, but I was always  holding it on my ears.  And then I realized later on it was similar to feeling a balloon, but over the years it  just became a point where my brain was, you know, actually hearing something really close,  but it wasn't close enough, but loud enough, and I'd be feeling it.  My brain was just picking it up as if I was actually hearing it really close to me.  And so I've adapted to the point where if I don't use the balloon, I can't hear anything.  But if it was a balloon, music's very clear to me, so my hands are basically mapping to  my brain what he hears me do.  I've done some studies in other deaf people in Europe who are born deaf who listen to  music with a balloon.  They find out their auditory cortex is still functional.  They're basically hearing.  It's just a different pathway.  Shame mechanics!  Bob claims his method of listening is limited, and that his balloon doesn't pass on as much  detail as a listener might receive through their ears.  That may be true, but he is so focused when he listens that he can tell which cable has  been swapped in a stereo system by listening alone far more reliably than most audiophiles.  You know, unless there's a lot of gesture involved in listening with the balloon, because  there's a lot of detail that I'm not able to hear.  And so I'm trying to figure out in my mind, what are they playing to?  With the dad, I know Jerry's going to go this way, and then Bob's going to kind of pick  up and play along with him.  They don't want to go this way, because I'm listening to particular people playing.  It's a really emotional thing for me.  I remember the first time a friend of mine played the guitar with headphones, and I was  going, wow!  These young people, you know this?  It's amazing to me how beautiful he was.  In the vast, nebulous darkness that was 2020, there is a specific moment that stands out  for many in the audio community.  It is a pinpoint of sorrow, and that is the death of writer, reviewer, and musician Art  Dudley on April 14th.  A few of us in the hi-fi industry who knew Art did what we could to assist his family  by facilitating the sale of some of his equipment and records.  Among the most recognizable items from this collection would have to be Art's Altec  Lansing flamenco speakers, which made many appearances in his writings over the years.  He described them as having a Neo-Moorish grill so elaborately styled it would not look  out of place in the drawing room of a Victorian hookah merchant.  But he also said that they were reliably skilled at turning groove bumps into goose bumps.  Bob, like so many of us, was a great fan of Art Dudley, of his reviews and his column  called Listening.  Bob now owns Art's speakers and listens to them every day in his unique way, with an  attentiveness and a connection that very few of us attain.  I'm sure Art would approve.  And I'm sure he would appreciate the ironic, iconoclastic beauty of this unlikely connection  he shares with an audiophile who is deaf.  I'm sure he's all the time listening to just the sound.  He has listened to Art's Altec.  I think Art would have appreciated the fact that I enjoy music because it speaks at a  human level.  One of the things about Art's writing is that he brought music to people.  And the equipment is a side story.  And certainly that is how I relate to him.  He's a musical taster.  Even having the Altecs just brought me closer to his writing.  English composer Edward Elgar said that there is music in the air, music all around us.  The world is full of it, and you simply take as much as you require.  In a way, it's a bit like the Force in Star Wars.  Music flows out and fills all the space.  It's there if you're aware of it.  Bob is just letting it in in a different way from the way I like.  John Coltrane was trying to do something other people weren't doing.  I listened to what John was trying to say.  In the album, Lightning Notes, he said something.  This is the music deaf people should hear.  I thought, wow.  That man was just giving the world his heart.  He was just like, crying.  It's life. Music is life. 