 As a famous Swiss man once said, man is born free and everywhere he is in chains.  This short quote goes to the heart of one of the central phenomena of study within the  social sciences, that is the idea of social order or structure and its relationship to  agency, freedom and the capacity to change this social structure.  Social institutions provide the paths and roads in our lives, they are the default positions  that have already been created.  They are the established institutions of culture, politics and the economy, that enable us to  go further, faster, easier, to do more.  They enable us, but they also constrain us, and they are the frameworks through which  power is exercised.  When we take these pathways, we give over our agency and choices to travel along roads  that have already been created by someone else.  Someone else is defining our choices along this path, and in so doing they have power  over us.  In the social sciences, social structure is the patterns of social arrangements in society.  They are both emergent from, and determinant of the actions and relations between agents.  As enduring patterns of behaviour and interaction, they define some form of order to the overall  system.  Social structures are typically complex and reoccurring patterns of organisation.  In contrast to social structure, social agency is the capacity of individuals to act independently  and to make their own free choices.  Because social structure is largely about order, it is often treated together with the  concept of social change, which deals with the forces that change the social structure  and the organisation of society.  Structures are really designed to facilitate order, but social change requires some form  of individual initiative.  So we have to ask, how do we as individuals change the social structure around us?  Here we see the interdependency between the two.  We need structures that often constrain the individual, but also we need individuals in  order to test and change the structure so that it can develop.  We need order, rules, obedience and the structure that they bring, but we also need individuals  who will sometimes break and test those rules in order to make them manifest and so help  to develop them.  Social structures or organisations are a product of agents coordinating their activities in  some fashion.  This coordination can only happen by the individuals giving over their agency, their choices and  actions to that organisation.  In people giving over their agency, they allow the organisation to make decisions on their  behalf.  They submit to following orders and become obedient to the organisation's agenda.  Without this submission and coordination, we have no form of structure.  It is only by police officers following orders that we can incarcerate people.  It is only by people choosing to go to work every day that we get business organisations.  It is only in our collective belief in money that it has any value.  So the real question is then, why do people give over their agency to organisations?  Sociologists have really found three answers to this question.  We do it either out of coercion, meaning we give up our choices because of the force that  others exert on us.  Or we do it in exchange, meaning that we bind ourselves into organisations because we perceive  the benefit to us to be greater than the cost.  Or lastly, we do it for normative reasons, meaning that we form organisations and maintain  them because we see it as a process through which to achieve some collective outcome that  we value.  Each of these different bases for giving over our agency create very different social structures  with a different process of change, so we'll go over each of them separately.  Coercive organisations are driven by relations of conflict.  Military dictatorships are a classical example of coercive organisations.  Power is based on force.  You give over your agency because, ultimately, of some fear that you have.  As humans, we actually use physical violence very rarely in our interactions.  Simply exercising violence is often a very last resort.  What we do use, though, is intimidation, displays of power, manipulation, propaganda, neglect,  acts of omission, etc. that are ultimately all trying to force one into adopting certain  actions and out of this we get some form of order and organisation that is based on coercion.  Inherent to the conflict theory of social order is that conflict is the normal state  within a society, not the exception.  This is most famously captured by Thomas Hobbes' book The Leviant, where he posits that man,  in a state of nature, is in a continuous war of all against all.  Order is then seen to only be maintainable through some powerful centralised force.  This force is exerted through some hierarchical structure.  As we've already discussed, relations of conflict give rise to a microstructure of  one agent assuming a dominant position over another, a microdynamic of power and authority,  where one agent assumes greater control over the agency of the combined organisation, while  another assumes a subordinate position with a lower level of representation within the  combined overall agency.  As such, the social structures that emerge out of agonistic relations engender various  degrees of inequality within a stratified hierarchical system, where power is exercised  in a downward direction in order to maintain the state or order of the system.  Coercive social structures have strong rules and follow a strict chain of command through  a hierarchical structure that represents a systematic way to integrate the activities  of members with divergent agendas by having a clear line of command and thus automatic  method for resolving conflict.  In order to control an organisation in a hierarchical fashion, it has to be linearised.  Non-linearity is inherently uncontrollable through a hierarchical model.  By linearise, I mean that you have to define a closed system, create a boundary around  it in order to constrain inputs and outputs to a relatively low level.  Equally, you have to reduce the number of non-linear interactions within the system,  meaning you need information to be primarily flowing up and down the hierarchy and not  horizontally because this would empower the agents on the lower levels of the organisation  and have a corrosive effect on the top-down exercise of control.  There is of course a strong dichotomy here between agents and structure.  Within coercive organisations, individual agency is not some natural right that all  members have.  Members are typically stripped of individuality and forced to conform.  The culture is one of strict obedience.  Jails would be one example of this.  Membership is not voluntary.  The individual is stripped of their personal belongings and forced to wear identical clothing.  They are identified by a number instead of their name.  All of this is to reduce the diversity and individuality of the agents and facilitate  their manipulation through the social structure.  Agency within these social systems is really derived from your place in the social structure.  For example, with the feudal system, the individual had no inalienable rights.  You got rights from your place in the social hierarchy and there was very little social  mobility.  Conflict theory sees social change as only achievable through conflict.  These coercive social systems are designed to serve the interests of those in the higher  stratas of the system.  Below some level in the hierarchy, the value of being part of the organisation is less  than it returns.  People remain in these lower positions because of coercion and dependency.  This creates some subsystem that desires change.  But above this theoretical line in the hierarchy, agents are receiving more than they are putting  in through exploitation.  This creates another subsystem that desires the maintenance of the social structure.  The system then remains in its current configuration as long as the upper stratas have sufficient  power and the lower stratas are sufficiently dependent.  But conflict theory goes on to add that this does not last forever.  At some point change happens though through some abrupt revolution.  When agents give over their agency based upon their own perceived interests within an exchange  system we get what is called a utilitarian organisation.  People engage in this type of organisation because they have something to gain.  Thus the culture is one of productivity and efficiency.  Legitimacy is based on the organisation's or person's capacity to deliver in this exchange.  Modern industrial societies are dominated by utilitarian organisations.  With the enlightenment came the idea of reason and people as rational self-interested agents  driven to maximise their utility.  From this new understanding of the individual we built a whole new set of social institutions  that are fundamentally utilitarian in nature.  They are designed to provide people with as much return on their investment of time, energy,  money or freedom as possible.  This is one way of understanding how economics and the idea of the market has become so dominant  within modern society as an exchange mechanism for creating social order.  A good example of a utilitarian organisation would be a business organisation.  People consent to join and give over their agency while part of that organisation in  exchange for some remuneration.  That is to say they work in exchange for pay.  When they feel this exchange is no longer of value to them they can discontinue it.  The idea of the social contract would be another example of this.  The modern theory of the social contract propounds that individuals have consented  either explicitly or tacitly to surrender some of their freedoms and submit to governance  in exchange for the protection of their remaining rights.  We are exchanging the constraints of our agency for the agency that governments give back  to us in the form of rights that they will protect.  In utilitarian organisations, order is maintained by a network of relations between the mutual  interests of individuals and often regulated by some kind of impartial third party that  oversees the exchange.  Like in a football match we have two competing parties but we also have the referee to mediate  this exchange and ensure the rules that facilitate the exchange are upheld.  Utilitarian organisations are typically bureaucratic in nature.  That is to say that they have an organisational model that is rationally designed to perform  complex tasks efficiently.  In a bureaucratic business or government agency, officials deliberately enact and revise policies  to make the organisation as efficient as possible.  Legitimacy and status are based largely on one's capabilities and efficiency.  Bureaucratic organisations are designed to be impersonal, there is a degree of abstraction  between the role and the individual person that is fulfilling that role at any given  time and there are formal methods to facilitate the change process whether this is through  election or some employment process.  This form of organisation often involves decisions made through what is called an adversarial  decision making process.  The use of a voting system to choose candidates to hold political office is an example of  an adversarial decision making process.  This process requires each candidate to convince voters that they are more trustworthy and  will be more effective in the role than the opponent.  Everyone gets a vote in this process but it does not require consensus, whoever gets the  most votes wins.  This process of decision making will sound very normal to us because it is used in many  modern organisations.  Lastly we'll talk about normative organisations.  People join normative organisations not out of coercion or self interest but instead to  pursue some goal that they believe has value in itself.  These types of organisation include community service groups, political movements, many  charities and we might include the new forms of collaborative networked organisations we  see emerging in post industrial economies such as open source software or wikipedia.  These organisations involve high levels of positive interdependence making cooperation  an attractor.  These relations of positive interdependence create peer interactions of cooperation with  low levels of stratification in a more horizontal network structure.  Normative organisations really emerge from self governance.  Because the individual is not shining out of coercion or self benefit, they are in no  way dependent upon the organisation, they engage in the organisation voluntarily and  thus the organisation has no real power over them.  Through self governance they themselves have chosen to constrain themselves in order to  coordinate with that group and achieve some collective outcome.  Without the need to regulate and control the members of the organisation, we can do  away with much of the hierarchy within the first two forms of social structure that were  required to simply ensure people's compliance.  This means these organisations can likely be much more agile.  Order is instead maintained through shared common commitment to some collective function.  The organisation is an emergent phenomena of the individuals pursuing a goal or some  interest that is of value to the overall system.  Within this form of organisation there is the possibility for consensus decision making,  which is a group decision making process in which group members develop and agree to support  a decision in the best interests of the whole.  It is used to describe the process of achieving a decision that is fully inclusive.  Through self governance the individuals agendas come to be aligned with that of the whole  and in this way we get integration between agency and structure.  But this is only because the individuals have created some internal structure of morals,  values, ethics etc.  Thus they are called normative organisations because they are really governed by these  personal normative values that people have developed to govern themselves personally.  In this way the governance structure is not something out there in some constitution or  set of rules that needs to be enforced, it is in the individuals culture.  We should remember that almost all real world social systems will involve some combination  of these three forms of basis to their structure and order.  For example many people go to work both out of a profit motive and because they believe  in the value of what their organisation is doing.  Or if we take the military as another example we might see all three forms.  People may join the military out of some belief in the value of securing their nation but  also they may join for personal financial benefit and once they are there rules will  be enforced in a coercive fashion.  In summary we have been talking about social structure and agents of change.  We noted how these two phenomena of agency and structure are deeply interdependent with  social structure emerging out of individuals giving over and combining their agency within  organisations that both enable the individuals and constrain them.  We talked about the different types of social structures and how they can be understood  in terms of the conditions under which the agents gave over their choices and actions,  starting on the most basic level of coercion that places an emphasis on structure over  agency in a rigid hierarchical organisation resistant to change.  Next we talked about utilitarian organisations where agents partake in exchange relations  based on mutual self-interest with the result being bureaucratic organisations focused on  efficiency that have come to be dominant in modern industrial societies.  Finally we talked about the normative organisations we get when people voluntarily coordinate  towards some collective function that is of a normative value through an inclusive decision  making process. 