 JJ, the CPA here. Hope you're doing well. Hey, wanted to do a paycheck protection program  update here on June 27th. Here the last couple of days, the SBA gave us another set of guidelines.  Some of the provisions in it replace previously provided guidelines by the SBA. There's a  number of important ones. And the last one I'm going to go over at the end, you might  be the most interested in. So stay tuned for that. I'd love it if you'd subscribe to my  YouTube channel. I'd love it also if you'd give me a thumbs up. I tell you what, you  go a couple of minutes into this and you're not a subscriber, come on, do the right thing.  Just having fun with you. All right. Hey, so in this 34 page document from the SBA,  and I'll put a link into it in the body of this, here are their major provisions. Some  you may have thought you knew, but they've been confirmed in this. They've been put in  writing. Some of the things that were in the instructions have been confirmed in the guidelines.  So you'd think, well, if they're in the instructions, they're good. Yeah, I would say the same,  but they've been further confirmed in this set of guidelines that came out last week,  which you can find on the SBA website, sba.gov. So I'm going to give you the page numbers.  The sub numbers and sub letters didn't seem to follow in my opinion. I don't know if they  got it out too quick or if they're indicating in this set of guidelines what it replaced  in a prior set of guidelines. Nonetheless, I'm going to give you the page number of where  to go in this recent set of guidelines, and then just fit through on what subsection that  it is actually in. So a couple of things to note is that you can apply any time. And when  I get to the end of this, I'll tell you some really good news related to that. But then  the bank has 60 days to decide on the forgiveness amount based on the application, as well as  the documentation is going to be required for that. And then the SBA is going to review  it after that because the SBA is then going to determine what they're going to send to  the lender. So there is a process there. And I know that there's a number of banks that  have indicated they don't even know necessarily the process. Well, guess what? This really  laid out that process for the banks as well. So I would assume here pretty quick, we're  going to see banks that are like, okay, yep, here's how you can go ahead and start the  process to apply for forgiveness. Of course, we know we've got now the two applications.  You can go to my website, jjthecpahelp.com. It's a community service website, no booby  traps there. On page eight, it does adamantly confirm, unfortunately, that the EIDL grant.  So that's the free money, meaning you don't have to pay the SBA back on the EIDL grant  that you got. That was the thousand per employee up to 10,000. But regardless of when you got  it, this confirms that it will be a reduction of your loan forgiveness. So even if you had  the full amount of the loan forgiven, you've met all the qualifications, you fill out the  application and it indicates loan forgiveness equal to your loan. If you got an EIDL grant,  the SBA is going to reduce it. So when you'll experience that is you're going to put the  application into the lender, your application for forgiveness, and you're going to show,  here's the amount of forgiveness. The lender is going to determine if they agree, if there's  any adjustments, and then the lender is going to submit that to the SBA as I indicated. But  then it will be the SBA that will reduce that. So they'll be able to track it. Of course,  on your loan forgiveness application, you do need to disclose the EIDL number. Whether you  do or not, they'll be able to trace it. On page eight, the SBA guidelines, this is on that 34  page again, link in the body. What it indicates is that if somebody doesn't apply, they got 10  months, if they don't apply, then it's going to convert into a loan at that time. Now I'm piecing  together some things from the past and we know that there's been updated guidelines upon updated  guidelines. My understanding is that whatever amount is not forgiven, the interest is going to  start accrue at the date that you got the money originally, the disbursement date. So it's not  really a strategy to say, well, I'm not going to be able to get any of this forgiven for whatever  reason. So I might as well just wait the 10 months past the end of my covered period because at least  I'm deferring interest. Well, you're not. What you're deferring maybe is the payments, but that  interest is going to be all the way back to the beginning based on what I know. That's not in  these guidelines. That's just based on what we've seen since the beginning of this going all the way  back to the end of March. On page nine, specifically talking about applying for forgiveness, you have  10 months from the last day of your covered period, which another way to look at that is  that if you elected the eight week covered period, then it would be from the data disbursement plus  eight weeks plus 10 months is your deadline. Now, if you're going to elect the covered period of 24  weeks, well, then it'd be your disbursement date plus 24 weeks, plus 10 months for you to be able  to apply. I don't know why you'd wait that long, but nonetheless, that is where it is indicated.  And then what's interesting is that if you have, and this is discussed on, so on page nine,  it addresses the question that I've had from the beginning. There are some, unfortunately,  that applied for the PPP and due to either misinformation, misunderstanding, or the bank  wasn't aware, so many things are moving fast. The amount that you got for your PPP is actually  too much. And how could that happen? Well, it was based on 1099s, not on your Schedule C line 31,  or it was based on Schedule C 2018, or it was based on some other covered, or not covered period,  but some other period of time that you and the bank came up with as a way to reflect an amount  to get for PPP. And then we know starting April 14th forward, they started to make it more clear,  okay, here's going to be the amount of forgiveness. Here's more exactly how you're going to be able to  apply for that. Instead of giving you every circumstance of how you got more money.  Okay. What the big question is, well, what's going to happen? Because I got too much. So am I going  to have to pay it back right away? Well, in these guidelines, what I'm indicating here,  or what I'm seeing indicated here is that it just, it's not going to be forgiven and it will then  go into the loan and you'll have to pay it back by the maturity date. So with that being said,  it doesn't appear that at the time of loan forgiveness application, you're cutting a check  for that amount, which I'm a little surprised by. That could change. Just know this, it's not a way  that you'll be able to find other ways to be forgiven and it will just be rolled into the  loan unless, and somehow the SBA thinks that the application for PPP funds was fraudulent. So I  think you would want to, if you've got a large amount, in my opinion, that you got above and  beyond what you should have, such as you included all the 1099 individuals or businesses that you  paid to get PPP. It doesn't say it in these guidelines, but I think you would really want  to consider avoiding the appearance of fraud, even though you can say, well, I just thought  that was the case. Not always is negligence a defense. So all I'm saying is if I had a client,  which I don't in these circumstances, but if I had a client and there was a large amount that  was obtained from PPP above what they qualified for, I would be advising that client to submit  a check at the time of application with an explanation ready to go. But according to  guidelines, basically what it indicates is that if you've got an amount that you're ineligible for,  well, of course it's not going to be forgiven, which will all come out when you fill out the  forgiveness application. On page nine as well, it talks about the fact, and it's very specific,  it talks about the fact that you can apply for forgiveness at any time. And it says you can apply  before the maturity, okay, the maturity date, which is that 10 months. And it says you can apply  before the end of the covered period. It says that specifically, you can apply before the end  of the covered period. And the last thing I'm going to go over, I think is the biggest news out  of all this and relief. Now on page 10, it, I think makes it very clear that whether you're doing the  eight week or the 24 week, your expenses for payroll costs, as well as the non-payroll costs  that are eligible, rent, utilities, and the interest, that we still get the paid and incurred  during the covered period. Okay. So covered period is eight weeks. Those that got a loan  before June 5th have that option. The 24 week is available for those that got it June 5th or after,  but let me be clear, no matter when you got the PPP money, you can do the 24 weeks. It's just,  if you got it June 5th or after, you can't do the eight weeks. Now, with that being said,  the big question is, okay, but if I apply before the end of my covered period, as in,  okay, I'm not going to elect the eight weeks. I'm going to go with the 24 weeks. So do I have to  wait till the end of the 24 weeks? No. But then the most important answer to the second thing  you're thinking of is, well, then how do I have to maintain employees if I apply for forgiveness  before the end of the 24 weeks, if that's your elected period? And we'll talk about that  at the end. The one thing I'll clarify that makes it also clear, I think, in the guidelines and  other guidelines is that when you're talking about the alternate payroll period, that doesn't  have anything to do with the 24 weeks. That's talking about basically you're using the weekly  or biweekly. So check out rules. I've got prior videos related to that. And the thing to note  though, is that the alternate payroll period has nothing to do with the 24 weeks. Okay.  The alternate payroll period, you can take advantage, whether you're doing the eight week  option or the 24 week option, you can use either one. And it's still paid and incurred in the  covered period that you elect, whether eight weeks or 24 weeks. So anything that you paid  related to payroll in the covered period and anything that was incurred during your covered  period, even if paid after the end of your covered period, you get to include. So lots of ways to  achieve full forgiveness, assuming you applied properly and you're spending it the way that you  indicated you would when you received the loan. So I'm going to talk about the end here about,  well, then how do you handle your employees if you apply before the end of your covered period.  On page 13 and 14, here's some important things to know. I'll probably do a special video on this,  but on page 13 and 14, it talks about caps on owners. Here's the one thing to know,  really across the board, we're talking about a cap of 20,833 of what can be included for  compensation for owner employees and the self-employed sole proprietor, independent contractor,  gig worker, single member LLC that files a Schedule C. And for the first time that I'm seeing,  they include Schedule F. I've been talking about Schedule F since before basically anybody was,  because I know Schedule F can be on your individual return subject to self-employment  tax, which makes it included. I digress to say, now here's the differences. If you file a Schedule  C, you file a Schedule C, doesn't matter if you're a gig worker, independent contractor,  sole proprietor, self-employed, single member LLC, you're filing a Schedule C. You're not  filing a separate return. For those that fall in that category, it's line 31 divided by 12  times two and a half. That's the max. You're not getting retirement and you're not getting  health insurance on top of that. Assuming you got the right amount of loan, you're at full  forgiveness. You're done. That's it. That's all you get. Now, check this out. If you're a partner  and you got the PPP based on being a partner and having self-employment earnings, it's still the  20,833, but when you read on pages 13 and 14, it seems that, and you'll just need to go and check  this out. You're taking that amount then times 92.35%. Why? Because it's accounting for self-  employer portion, even though you don't have a quote unquote employer, but it's providing for  half of the self-employment tax. If you're a partner and you got it that way, which seems  really rare that partners got that, check out pages 13 and 14, check with your professional.  If you don't have a partnership, just wash this 92.35% from any of your thinking. If you do not  have a partnership that you got money based on you being a partner, if you have a partnership  and you paid employees, what I just said about the 92.35% has nothing to do with that.  All right. So for S-Corp owners and C-Corp owners, so the S-Corp is a flow through entity.  The C-Corp is not. How do you know which one you got? Well, look at the tax return that you're  filing for your business, which would be separate from your individual return.  If it says Form 1120, you're a C-Corp. If it says Form 1120-S, you're an S-Corp. You're going to  look at the top left corner and there's also a title across the top. So let's start with the  C-Corp. If you're the owner employee and you paid yourself wages in 2019, you get to include  up to that 100,000 mark or whatever you paid yourself in 2019, the lower of,  okay. Divided by 12 times two and a half of the wages. On top of that, C-Corp owners, just go  read it in page 13 and 14. If you have a question about it, I'm going to invite you to go to the  link that I put in here and go to page 13 and 14 and just go ahead and read it for yourself because  it's very clear, very clear that for C-Corp owners, they get their salary plus healthcare that was  paid by the C-Corp plus the retirement benefits paid by the entity. Go read it. Now for S-Corp  owners, hear me on this. Hear me on it. It makes it clear that everybody's ignoring this one  sentence. Every single person that's written an article so far is ignoring this one sentence.  Ridiculous. Okay. So for S-Corp owners, it says, and you have to hear my follow-up. You have to  hear the next sentence after this sentence, okay? For the S-Corp owner, okay, it's your wages  plus only the retirement benefits that the S-Corp paid on your behalf. But here's the sentence.  The reason it doesn't include health insurance like it does for a C-Corp is because for S-Corp  rules that have been around forever and a day, the S-Corp includes in the S-Corp owner's wages,  the health insurance that was paid by the S-Corp. So the wages that were paid to the S-Corp owner  are here. If the S-Corp paid health insurance, that amount is added to the wages and then this  is the actual wages, the higher amount, actual paid out money's wages plus the health insurance  for the S-Corp owner paid by the S-Corp. That's the wage amount. That's the wage amount. So health  insurance, if done properly, according to laws that have been around for days, the health insurance  is included. Stop running around thinking you're a victim because you're an S-Corp owner saying,  well, we don't get health insurance. It's not fair. The only way you didn't get the health  insurance included is if you're doing it absolutely incorrectly for tax purposes,  which is you didn't include in the past health insurance that the S-Corp paid on your behalf  in your wages. Okay. So what does that mean? I mean, everybody's ignoring the second sentence.  It says in the SBA guidelines that the reason the S-Corp employee owner doesn't get the health  insurance on top of the wages is because wages is to include the health insurance. Makes total  sense to me that the S-Corp owner is, yes, getting the health insurance because they're getting  wages. The difference is from the C-Corp is that the wages are capped at 20,833. So if you have an  owner employee and they're paying themselves over $100,000 and on top of that, the health insurance  is included in the wages of the S-Corp owner, then yeah, there's a haircut there. I'll give you  that. Okay. But if you have an owner employee and they're paying themselves 60 grand and they have  $12,000 in health insurance, taxable fringe benefits that are included in their wages,  they, as the S-Corp owner employee, get to include $72,000 as part of their payroll costs  plus the retirement. Okay. Let's see. So that's on pages 13 and 14. So go check that out. Pages  15 and 16, buzz through that. There's a number of kind of clarifications.  Then on page 18, and now we're wrapping this up on page 18 and 19. Okay. It talks about the 25%  reduction in salary and that's per employee. It talks about the exceptions. These are all what  we've knew before. Okay. As it relates to the salary reduction, the flexibility act  introduced two new safe harbors, but they were related to FTEs. So there's two ways you can get  a haircut to your PPP forgiveness. It is reducing an employee's salary by more than 25% of their  compensation, more than 25%. That's per employee. Okay. And then the amount of your loan forgiveness  would be the amount of reduction. Okay. Beyond the 25%. So if they go through an example,  really good example. So if you had somebody and they reduced down the salary by 30%,  then the loan forgiveness, okay. Would be reduced by that employee's reduction of the 5%.  What does that mean? No, you're not reducing down your loan forgiveness by 5%. If you have,  and it goes through the example, you have a couple of scenarios. So if you're wanting some  clarification, go to page 18 and 19, they lay out some really great examples. They're very easy to  understand. So go check them out. Again, the link to that is in the body of this. Now there are  exemptions or exceptions. If you had to let somebody go for cause, if you couldn't replace  them or they left, or you offered employment and they wouldn't come back, we have those  exceptions. Those are the same for the FTEs. And then out of the flexibility act, the two new safe  harbors that were added as well is that your business has reduced to the fact that you aren't  able to even hire the same amount of employees that you had back. Because you've had five  locations. Now you have two. You had a thousand clients. Now you have 10, right? If your business  didn't get back to, then that is an exemption or safe harbor that has come out of the flexibility  act. Okay. So as I had been talking about from the beginning, so what do you have to do when  maintaining your employees as it relates to the salary reduction? Because we know that basically  for FTE, we've got enough safe harbors that it's going to be rare unless you just really went  against everything PPP was to do. But a lot of exceptions, a lot of safe harbor to avoid the  haircut for the FTE. But what about the salary reduction? Because the flexibility act didn't  bring any new safe harbors related to the reduction in salaries at 25%. So the question has been,  okay, well, if I apply for forgiveness before 24 weeks, do I still have to maintain the FTEs  through the end of 24 weeks? Do I still have to look at 1231, 2020? Or if I apply for forgiveness  before the end of the 24 weeks or eight weeks, whatever, before the end of your covered period,  do I then have to maintain salaries at the amount that I was to avoid the haircut?  Okay. And the question is even, well, do I have to wait until after the 24 weeks or is it better  to wait the 24 weeks to see that I maintained all the employees, that I maintained all the wages  through? And why is that a big question? Well, there's a big difference between eight weeks and  24 weeks, right? I mean, that's an obvious 16 weeks. So you could have a business that it's  like, well, I mean, I got the PPP. I used it for its purposes. I can't actually now keep paying  these employees the same amount. I can't keep the head count post PPP, right? I can't do it.  So I want you to remember one thing, okay? I want you to remember one key thing. You ready for this?  When you're determining that reduction, okay, what are you comparing it to?  Right? It's not you're comparing it to the beginning of the covered period. It's not  comparing it to prior year. There's one period of time that everybody seems to miss or just  not paying attention to. The period of time that you are comparing whether or not you reduce down  employee salaries by more than 25% is February 15th to April 27th. Okay? So it is the February  15th plus 30 days of when the enactment was put into play. So it was put into play March 27th.  So February 15th to April 27th, okay? That period of time, what were you paying your employees?  What were you paying those specific employees? That's what you're comparing to now in your  covered period, okay? Did you pay less to those employees? Okay? Now, you ready?  Check this out. When you apply for forgiveness, apply for it. The date that you apply for it,  your requirements end on FTEs and reviewing salary reductions. The requirement ends.  So you kind of get to pick. You elect the 24-week covered period, which is you indicate that on  page one. You show data disbursement plus 24 weeks. That means you elected the 24-week covered  period. Then you hand it in when you've met full forgiveness. And yes, it can be before the 24 weeks.  So the date that you apply for forgiveness, that's when your requirements end. So I would say this,  you want to find a balance. Then we'll wrap up. You want to find a balance here, okay?  It might be like, okay, I'm to the penny. Boom. Let's go get the forgiveness. Now,  if you're self-employed, yeah, you're applying for forgiveness ASAP. Everything I've been talking  about related to FTEs and salary reduction, of course, doesn't apply to the self-employed.  Self-employed, you're filling out your loan forgiveness app just as fast as the bank will  accept it because of everything that we've been talking about earlier in other videos, which is  if the amount that you applied for with that line 31 is the same line 31 that you're using  when you apply for forgiveness, you're done. So on the employers, okay, you elect the 24-week  period. You're 10, 12 weeks into it. You apply for forgiveness. That's where your cutoff is  for having to track FTEs and salary reductions. Now, two key things to know here, okay?  If you had a haircut on either one, but if you had a haircut and you handed in an application  for 12 at 12 weeks, okay, and you had a haircut calculation, you have to extrapolate the haircut  that you already were experiencing to the full 24 weeks. What does that mean? You get a haircut  of $50 a week for a certain employee, okay? So $50 times 24, okay, that's a $1,200 haircut  to your loan forgiveness. Meaning it's not, oh, well, it's $50 a week. I was 12 weeks in,  boom, I only have to take a haircut of $600, okay? If you're getting a haircut,  you have to include a 24-week haircut based on the haircut that you already had experienced.  You're not determining a future haircut. Now, let's be really clear on this, okay?  If you've paid everybody and you're good to go and you didn't reduce any salaries and you didn't  reduce any FTEs and you hand in the application, it's done and over with in determining what  happens on the go forward, okay? If FTEs and the salary reduction comes into play, okay,  your time period ended of tracking that. So let me say it the opposite. You're handing  in a loan forgiveness app and you got a haircut. You got a haircut. You did reduce down somebody.  You do have a $50 a week reduction to your loan forgiveness, okay? And you're handing it in at  the 12-week mark. You have to include the haircut for the entire 24 weeks because you already are  having a haircut, okay? So yes, that is including a future amount, but it's not the unknown future  amount. It's a known reduction that you then have to account for for 24 weeks. So now, could you  reverse that by going through the 24 weeks? Yeah. So my point is, is that for those that don't have  haircuts, apply, but the balance here is this, okay? Because I know it's like, oh, I want to get  over with. Stop stressing. I mean, if you got rent and you got plenty of employees,  stop stressing. But what I'm recommending to my clients is this. Let's still have more than  enough. We don't have to wait for 24 weeks, but let's still have more than enough. Why?  The SBA is not going to change rules, but what if there's a question? What if you just miscalculated  something? What if you're like, oh, shoot, because it went to the bank and then the SBA and then the  SBA comes back. Once you put in your app, you're done collecting up your expenses. You're done.  So why not just make sure, if three months of rent gets you there,  why not have four? You got paid and incurred. If eight weeks of payroll gets you right there,  why don't you just go an extra payroll? Why not just have 10 weeks of payroll, 12 weeks of payroll  if you don't have any haircuts? Why not just have enough? Have more than enough. And why? Because  now you've given yourself a safety net. Again, the rules aren't going to change related to this.  The only time rules have changed, well, I take that back. In the last month, the rules that  have changed have always been for the better. So I don't see going forward, we're going to see any  rules that would go against us. However, if you read the articles, there are some that are saying,  hey, maybe go ahead and get your loan in in case they change a rule or a law that's not in your  favor. I don't really see that. So here's the deal. For me, I have PPP. I'm at my eight weeks.  I'm going to go 12 weeks. I'm going to have plenty of rent. I'm going to have plenty of utilities.  I'm going to have plenty of payroll. My payroll has been the same. My FTE has been the same. I  don't see that I'll have any differences there. But at about 12 weeks, I've got plenty.  So if for some reason, okay, you've chosen the wrong payroll period or the wrong alternative date  or whatever the case is, boy, if you've got 12 weeks in there, you got plenty of safety net  because really if you've spent the money and you've done it properly, you should get full  forgiveness. You really should. So why rush it and then go, dang it, I missed it by this or I  didn't include this or dang it, that didn't count, right? Why be in those circumstances?  Why not just come with more than you need? It's like going to grandma's house or grandpa's house  or your favorite aunt or your favorite uncle or cousin or whatever, right? And when you go,  typically there's more than enough food, right? You got 10 people, they got 25 rolls sitting  there for you, okay? You got 10 people, they got three pies waiting for you, right? So why not come  with more than enough when you're going to your forgiveness? All right, hey, thanks for tuning in.  I'd love it if you'd subscribe and then don't you ever forget, you've never met a CPA quite like me.  All right, hey, have a great day. Again, hey, I'd love it if you'd subscribe. Appreciate you.  JJ the CPA has been serving thousands of businesses for the last 27 years. He is also a  national speaker teaching CPAs across the U.S. about the latest tax laws, as well as an author  and now what many call a YouTuber. Through this COVID era, JJ became a voice of calm during the  pandemic, guiding countless businesses, self-employed individuals, and fellow tax pros through the PPP  maze. Now JJ is taking his know-how to help businesses that have asked for his help to  rebound out of this mess that no one saw coming. He is doing this out of his own pocket, not for a fee,  and to simply show the American business owner that they are not alone. JJ, America's CPA,  is here to help save the entrepreneurial spirit, one business at a time.  Hey, the CPA is here, been doing this for years. We about to get your money right,  you got nothing to fear. From the burbs to the ghetto, put the pedal to the metal, I got my money.  Hi, this is JJ, the CPA, and...  Yeah, JJ, the CPA is here. Yeah, JJ, the CPA is here. Let's go. Yeah, JJ, the CPA is here. 