 Welcome everyone to this video. I'm Charles Bernard and for those of you who are not familiar  with me, I'm an illustrator who paints paperback book covers for novels. I love reading the  story and then coming up with the concept for the cover and painting the cover. So that's  what I'm mainly interested in doing, aside from making art instruction videos for my  online art school called the Online Art Academy, where I have a course called the Complete  Illustration Art Course. And I used to work for the famous artist school. So some of you  might have heard of the school, but if you're a young person, most likely you really never  heard of the school. It was one of the premier art schools of its time, and it had great  illustrators as their guiding faculty members. And here they are. I'm not going to go through  all of them. If you want to know more about the famous artist school, you can find out  more at Google. And I also used to do the art instruction videos for the magazine called  Imagine FX and Advanced Photoshop, as well as other magazines. So enough about me. Now  I want to talk about what you see here. So what is that? That is one of the original  textbooks for the famous artist school art course. This particular textbook was put together  by Ben Stahl, one of the guiding faculty members for the school. And let me point him out to  you here. It's this fellow right there, the great Ben Stahl. In this video, I'm going  to be applying what Ben Stahl talks about in his textbook, specifically what is found  on this page of the textbook. Now I'm just going to quickly go through this. I'm not  going to read everything here. On this page, Ben Stahl talks about what he calls emotional  form or creative form. An example of creative form can be seen here in this Bernie Fuchs  illustration. Creative form involves distortion, which means that you don't copy reality exactly  the way it is. Changes are made to forms and shapes. And in addition to that, all of the  various principles of design are applied as well as lighting and color and all those components  that go into the making of a picture. All of that combined is what Ben Stahl calls emotional  form or creative form. It's the same thing. Emotional form is creative form and creative  form is emotional form. And it's emotional form because you respond to the picture emotionally.  It has all of these various components that create a feeling or mood within the picture  that you respond to. So basically that's what Ben Stahl is talking about on this page from  his textbook. He's also pointing out the different forms of art, such as here, for example, that's  abstraction, pure abstraction without story. Here you see some story, a woman with a mandolin,  but the style is more abstract, not as abstract as these where there isn't any story, just  pure abstraction. Then we come down here and here, emotional form becomes more important,  which means the artist stresses all those components that I mentioned, as well as abstraction.  And story isn't as important as those components that make up the picture that I just mentioned,  which gives the picture emotional form or creative form. So it's the creative form that  becomes more important than the story. And then over here, these two, this is where story becomes  even less important and the abstract shapes that you see here become more important, even more  important than these examples. This one was done by Cezanne. This was done by the great Degas.  Their paintings are great because they embody this creative form that Ben Stahl is talking about  and that you see in these two paintings that were done by Ben Stahl. Now up here, that is  diagrammatic form as Ben Stahl refers to it. And diagrammatic form doesn't have emotional or  creative form. It just has story, which means all those components that I mentioned, lighting and  the principles of design and color and rhythm and abstraction and all those components, they're not  really part of diagrammatic illustrations. The only thing that really becomes important in these  more diagrammatic illustrations is what the story is, what the characters, for example, are doing.  Like in this example, there's a woman here cooking by the stove. So it's pure story without  emotional form. Now in this video, what I'm going to be stressing mostly is this, abstract shapes  and forms. So I'm going to be talking a lot about abstraction in art, like what you see Bernie Fuchs  doing here in his illustration. Abstraction in illustration. Abstraction and realism can be  combined and some of the greatest illustrations ever done are the result of this synthesis of  representational or figurative art combined with abstraction. And superb examples of this can be  seen in the illustrations by the great illustrator Mark English. And here you see a couple of  examples. The heads here are representational, but the rest is abstract. If these more realistic or  representational heads were not there, the whole painting would look like a complete abstraction.  So if I did something like this, for example, and on the woman just blocked out all of the  representational part of this illustration, now it looks like a complete abstraction. Just the  combination of a lot of different shapes without any representational image that tells me what  this is. In other words, now it looks like it has no subject. Bringing back the faces, now the  illustration combines both representational and abstraction. So in these two illustrations, Mark  is very abstract in his approach, but not completely abstract because there is a representational image  in both of these illustrations. Like you see over here with these heads. If I block out those heads  like this, like I did with the other illustration, now the illustration looks like a complete  abstraction. And the major part of this illustration consists of these abstract shapes, just as this  illustration consists mainly of these abstract shapes that you see. When there is no subject,  then it's abstract. So I'm going to quickly do an abstract sketch here. We all know what an  abstract painting looks like. So add some color variation like this, and then maybe the complementary  color to this blue. And I'm going to add a really dark orange, desaturated like this. And go a little  more saturated here. Maybe a green, not too many colors. And add a couple of darker darks right  there like that. And of course what I have is an abstract painting. So it's abstract because there  aren't any representational or figurative elements here that you can identify. So whenever you do a  painting that doesn't have any representational or figurative elements in it, it's considered an  abstraction. Like most of which Mark English's illustration is like. And this one too. All of this  is more abstract, and then he introduces a more representational image within the abstraction with  these heads. So what Mark does is really interesting. Combining abstraction with realism.  He creates a synthesis of realism and abstraction, and the result is an extremely appealing visual  style. Now just as Mark English introduced a more representational image with these heads, thereby  creating this marriage between abstraction and realism, I can introduce a representational image  into this abstraction, turning it into a semi-abstract painting, just as this is a semi-abstract  painting. So what do I do? Well, maybe something like this. See already it's beginning to look like  there are buildings. I'm introducing a subject, whereas before there was no subject. And because  of that, it's a pure abstraction. But now the subject that I've introduced are these buildings.  So now even though there are still elements of abstraction here, there's also a representational  image as well, combining both abstraction and representation, just like Mark English did in  this really great illustration. And Mark draws your attention to the heads because this is where  you find a more finished and detailed look, whereas everything else is not as highly finished  and detailed like what you find where the heads are, the faces in particular. And then he adds a  decorative element by way of these little spots that he adds, creating this texture on the woman's  blouse. Just like Mark English can draw your attention to a particular spot within the  illustration, like the heads here, I can draw your attention to a particular place within this  abstraction or semi-abstract painting by just applying this, a more saturated color, you see,  and your eye is drawn right there to that more saturated color placed right next to the darkest  dark within the painting. So this is just a rough example of combining a representational image with  abstraction, just like Mark English combined the representational image of the heads here with  abstraction, resulting in this beautiful style. I just love his illustrations. And here's another  example of Mark English combining abstraction with realism. All of these shapes here, they're  all more abstract. And then he adds these notes of more realistic images. And here again, in this  illustration, he combines more representational images, which you see here and here and here,  with more abstract shapes everywhere. And I love the decorative note that he adds by way of these  little spots on the dress. You see, they add a texture, which looks rather decorative. And that  decorative addition to the illustration helps to add more interest to the illustration. He's one of  my favorite illustrators and just a brilliant artist. And now I want to quickly show you these  illustrations that were done by Richard Powers. He was one of the most influential and sought-after  science fiction and fantasy illustrators of the 1950s. And as you can see, his style is more  abstract, but not entirely because you can still make out certain representational images within  the illustrations, such as these figures here, for example. But as you can see, they were painted in a  more abstract style. So most of what you see in this illustration is more abstract. And you can  see this more abstract style in these two paintings here as well. All of this is pure abstraction. But you can  see some representational images here, these figures, you can make that out that they're figures. So it's not  entirely abstract. As long as you can make out some representational images within the illustration, it's  not pure abstraction, because it still has subject matter and story. And in this example, again, you can see the  abstract shapes that he uses. It's all more abstract, because you really can't make out what all of this is  really supposed to be. Therefore, it's not really representational. You can make out a figure over here,  though. His illustrations are highly surrealistic. So here's another example of a more abstract approach. See a  lot of abstract shapes everywhere. But within all of this abstraction, he introduces these more  representational images, you can make out what this is supposed to be. So he's combining abstraction with  representational or figurative elements, the style becomes more semi abstract, not entirely abstract or pure  abstract. So back again to this page, I hope that those examples helps in gaining a better understanding of  abstraction in illustration. I'll be showing more examples later. And it's very important that you see a lot of examples in  which the illustrator creates this synthesis of abstraction and realism, of which Mark English, as you saw, is a superb  example. So what is abstraction? How can it be defined as it pertains to picture making? It's about simplification,  simplifying the forms and shapes in your pictures. And it's about painting shapes and forms that are not representational of  any kind of subject matter and that don't have a story. But as I showed you in the paintings by Mark English and Richard Powers,  especially Mark English, you can combine abstraction with more representational images and story, resulting in a more  abstract-like style in illustration. Abstraction is also about the complete elimination of detail or the reduction in the amount of  detail. So you still have detail, but you are showing restraint in the amount of detail that you're putting into your picture,  thereby you're simplifying the shapes and forms. It is about the forms and shapes becoming more important than the details of which you  see a superb example of in this painting by Bernie Fuchs. Through abstraction, you can attain simplicity in your paintings. However,  mastering the art of simplicity is not easy. But you have to also realize that nothing in art is really easy. When you look at the great  illustrations done by Bernie Fuchs or Bob Peake or Mark English, for example, the apparent ease with which they appear to have been done is  amazing, but also deceptive. Don't be fooled. It is not easy to paint like that. The going is always tough for artists. The great painter Degas once said,  If painting weren't trouble, it wouldn't be fun. To get that abstract quality into your shapes, you have to get rid of all that extra stuff that art students so love to put in.  You have to simplify, in other words. That's what will give your shapes a more abstract quality, like you see here. You have to eliminate everything that is  superfluous. And I'm talking specifically about illustration because I'm an illustrator. Great illustrators like Bernie Fuchs or Bob Peake or Mark English, they understand  that even the introduction of the most essential detail weakens the structure of the picture. Therefore, Bernie keeps the shapes simple. There's little detail here.  There is detail, but there isn't a lot of it. You need to decide, just like Bernie needed to decide, how abstract you want your shapes to be. The more detail you introduce, the less abstract they will appear.  The less detail you introduce, the more abstract they will appear. In other words, there are different degrees of abstraction. So, abstraction is essentially about elimination and simplification.  Like you see here. Before I show you more about what Bernie Fuchs did, I want to show you these environmental concept art paintings that were done for the Star Wars movies.  And I want to show you these because the artists here designed beautifully abstract shapes. You see all of this, these darks here, they're abstract shapes. And here, of course, and here, and even this. It's all more abstract, with very little detail that can be found within those abstract shapes.  You can see some detail here, some tonal variations, lighter tone, darker tone. But the artist doesn't lose the essential simplicity of the overall dark abstract shapes. He would have lost that simplicity if he had added too many details and too many light tones that would break up that dark abstract shapes. He didn't do that.  And you see the same use of abstract shapes in this painting here. All of this is an abstract shape. Now, within this abstract shape, you can see some detail right here. You see, the artist added detail, but he didn't add the detail in such a way that it would break up the simple overall dark abstract shape.  So, like I said, you can have detail within the abstract shape, more or less, but the artist is keeping all of this detail under control. He didn't make the detail light in tone so that it stands out too much, so that it becomes too conspicuous. If he did that, he would have broken up the simple dark abstract shape.  The artist knew exactly what he was doing. Very nicely done painting. And this abstract shape acts as a kind of frame for what's going on over here.  And here's another painting for one of the Star Wars movies. And again, you can see this abstract shape here, this dark abstract shape, helping to hold together the entire composition coming around like this, you see.  And there is some tonal variation that you see here, a lighter tone, and some detail can be seen within the abstract shape. See here and here, you see the detail. Other parts of the shape, there's less detail or no detail like over here. It just looks like one solid silhouette shape, dark shape.  But this abstract shape, the way it has been designed, is what helps to make this an effective painting and provides us with a stimulating visual experience.  Also important to note is that the artist didn't put a lot of detail in here, made that detail rather obvious like this. If he had done that, then that would have taken too much attention away from what is really important and what is going on in this painting that the artist wants you to focus on, which is what's going on here.  So therefore, that shape, that dark shape, is made more abstract with the detail more subdued like you see here. Less important. The shape, the abstract shape, therefore becomes more important and the eye is attracted here to the center of interest and not diverted to other parts of the painting where there might be too much detail, taking the attention away from what's really important.  This is all about composition, so therefore, if you're an art student, you have to understand that composition is one of the most important aspects of making pictures that you need to become really good at. It's more important than rendering, more important than technique.  You can't have a good picture without good composition. If anybody tries to convince you that there can be a really good or even great picture without good composition, then they don't know what they're talking about.  And now let me get back to Bernie Fuchs's painting.  Bernie is concerned with abstraction here more than he is with any realistic depiction of the subject where you see a lot of detail and light and shadow, for example. This illustration combines story and emotional form or creative form.  Bernie is being creative here. He has redesigned the subject. The subject wouldn't look exactly like this in real life. He made all sorts of changes that were necessary in order to create a more abstract looking illustration that has this creative form that Ben Stahl is talking about.  I love this abstract shape that he creates here, a silhouette like shape. Abstract shapes are more silhouette like, like what you see here. They're more simple. I think this is so well done.  See how simply he leads your eye to the man's head by placing this little bit of light tone within a sea of darker tone. Just beautifully done and so simple. That light tone and that dark tone just draws your attention right there.  The dark tone expresses beautifully what the figure is feeling. This man is lost in his thoughts. You get a pensive feeling from the man who is lost in deep serious thought and this dark tone and abstract shape helps to get that feeling across.  And there's a dynamic quality to the composition because he places all of this at an angle like that, which makes the composition more dynamic.  Fuchs is a master of composition that doesn't follow any formulas for composition. That's why many of his compositions are original. He doesn't do what everybody else does.  He's an innovator in composition. If you want to do something original in composition, you need to break the rules, but you can't break them unless you know what the rules are. That is the paradox of picture making.  Fuchs was highly influenced by the great Degas. So Fuchs's work, especially in the later years, becomes more impressionistic like and more abstract like what you see here.  Before I continue with the video, I just want to mention that this is another one of my long videos. Therefore, it's intended for those of you who are able to watch much longer videos than the usual 10, 15 or 20 minute videos.  And of course, if you can't watch the whole video in one session, you can always stop it wherever you want and then come back to the video whenever you can and resume watching the video.  And you can do that as many times as you need to. But as always, I suggest that if you're able to, watch the entire video in one session.  So here's an illustration done by Ben Stahl. In Ben Stahl's textbook, he says that too many people feel that the sole function of a picture is to tell a story or to represent some familiar object, such as an apple lying on a table.  There is, however, much more to pictures than mere representation. If the table and apple were arranged in such a way as to create a better relationship between the two forms, the diagrammatic effect would not be reduced, but the emotional content would be increased.  And it is this emotional quality that causes people to look at and like a picture. In this great illustration, it is the emotional quality that you're reacting to, that you're responding to.  Not so much the story that the mother, I'm guessing, is putting a hat on the seated woman. Creative artists employ distortion. They don't try to make the subject look exactly the way it does in real life.  They will distort shapes and forms to conform to what their idea of picture structure is. And it is the creatively conceived picture structure which makes us like or dislike a picture, which is what you see in this illustration by Ben Stahl.  So, looking at Ben Stahl's chart here, where do you think his illustration over here falls on this chart? Well, obviously, it's not pure abstraction, so we can rule that out. But is it this, maybe? That which is less abstract than these two, but there is still story here, the woman with the mandolin.  So, when there is story, there is also diagrammatic content. But pure diagrammatic content is what you see over here with the woman cooking at the stove, to which no emotional form has been added. Or do you think it falls on this part of the chart?  That is less abstract like what you see here, but there is still abstraction here, abstract shapes and forms, as well as story or diagrammatic content. Or do you think it falls over here, that part of the chart, where there is more abstraction, more abstract shapes and forms than what you find over here?  But even though there is more abstract shapes over here, there is still story content. Well, I would say Ben Stahl's illustration falls within this part of the chart. While his illustration contains abstract shapes, he doesn't take it quite as far as these illustrations that he did.  There are different degrees of abstraction, which is seen in this chart, all of this, from pure abstraction to abstraction, but abstraction that also has diagrammatic content, which means there's also story. But it's not pure story, like in that example with the woman cooking at the stove.  So Ben Stahl's illustration has emotional form, or creative form, as it's also referred to, and creative form also involves some distortion. These figures, this whole scene, wouldn't look exactly this way in real life.  Ben Stahl made various changes that he felt necessary to create emotional form, which results from the combination of abstract shapes and forms, as well as the application of rhythm and lighting and balance and all the various principles of design. All of this taken together adds up to what Ben Stahl refers to as emotional form.  The beginning art student, being completely unaware of what emotional form is, will proceed to copy the scene like this, for example, if he or she is working from real life or from a photograph that was taken of a scene like this.  The student will try to copy everything exactly the way it appears within the photo, not knowing anything about the principles of design and rhythm and how to create balance, and doesn't know about color and light and all those various things that go into creating emotional or creative form.  And what the student ends up with is just a facsimile or a kind of Xerox copy of reality, devoid of any creativity, that is, creative form.  That's why, if you are a beginning art student, or even if you're further along in your studies and you're not learning about this in the art school that you're in, it's crucial for you to understand what Ben Stahl is talking about in his book, and which I am pointing out to you here.  If you don't really understand this, then you're never really going to be able to paint pictures like this, or like this, for example.  This was done by Bob Peake, and I'll be showing you more examples of Bob Peake's great illustrations in this video.  Bob Peake is a master of abstract forms and shapes.  He is able to create this kind of emotional or creative form that Ben Stahl is talking about, and you can see it here in this beautiful illustration of this woman holding a rose, just magnificently done.  And Peake is using abstract shapes.  These kind of abstract shapes that Peake creates and that Ben Stahl creates in his illustrations, they are not completely flat.  They don't look like this, for example, in Peake's illustration.  You see, now what I've done is I've created this graphic shape.  It's completely flat, and the hair looks completely flat because of that, of course.  But if I don't make the abstract shape a graphic shape, or completely flat, like this, then there is a feeling that there is some form, even though it's an abstract shape.  So what makes this different from this abstract shape?  Well, I'm going to enlarge this, and it is the subtle differences in tone that you see.  Darker, a little lighter, a little darker, and then some of the hair strands added, which are dark lines.  So there is some variation, although it is subtle, of differences in tone.  And it is these subtle differences in tone that help to make the hair look like it is not completely flat looking, like in this example.  Unless you want a style that is more like this, with these kind of graphic shapes, you will need to add subtle differences in tone,  so that the object that you're drawing or painting doesn't look completely flat.  I'm going to turn Peake's painting into a black and white. You can see the subtle differences in tone.  You see, it's not completely flat, like in this example, with the graphic shape.  The same thing can be found in this illustration by Ben Stahl.  There are, in other words, different degrees of flatness. You can have the illustration look more flat or less flat, but it still can remain abstract.  It depends on what style you're after.  And for me, this style is what appeals to me most, and is the most creative.  Let me bring in another painting, and this one was done by the great Degas.  Here you see another example of creative form, or emotional form.  Emotional form is creative form, and you see a degree of abstraction here that is applied in this more impressionistic style.  So when you apply more abstraction, your image becomes more impressionistic looking.  And here again, like in Peake's painting, there are subtle differences in tone,  which I'm going to show you in black and white here, that you can see on the dresses of the ballerinas.  You see the subtle differences, a little darker, a little lighter, even lighter.  But taken all together, they add up to one overall abstract shape.  And you see an abstract shape here, and of course, abstract shapes back here, and it gets rather busy looking back there.  Degas may have done that to help express what the ballerinas might be feeling.  There's a kind of nervous energy that all of this makes,  which reflects the nervousness of the emotional state of the ballerinas.  So it helps to express their emotional nervous state.  So he didn't just go in there and start scribbling paint around without any real reason for doing what he did here.  It's about trying to express what these ballerinas are feeling  by way of the setting, and I've talked about this in other videos that I have.  I'm not sure how well that was really understood, but this is all important.  The setting must help express what the characters are feeling within your illustration.  If you can't do that, if you don't know how to do that, you can never join the ranks of great artists like Degas,  or Bob Peake, or Ben Stahl, because they all do that.  They all know how to do that. You can find that in their great illustrations.  That's one of the most important things that puts you a notch above everyone else.  As a matter of fact, a lot of notches above everyone else,  because you don't see this sort of thing in every illustration.  This painting, of course, is not an illustration. It's a work of fine art.  I'm going to bring in a paperback book cover.  Beautifully done. Here, again, you can see the use of abstract shapes.  All of this, of course, is an abstract shape,  and the sails of the ship back here, all of this is more abstract.  In other words, more silhouette-like shapes are being used.  Nowadays, in concept art, you see a lot of this approach where the artist uses more simple silhouette-like shapes,  more abstract shapes in the concept art, and it really looks beautiful when that is done well.  And, of course, the water, all of this is more abstract,  even the background shape.  So abstract involves simplifying the shapes, like you see here.  The artist also uses the principle of repetition of color.  You see the red here, it's being repeated here, and then on the hat.  By repeating the color like that, he also creates a movement within the composition,  so the eye is attracted to this red, then to that one, and then to the reds on the hat,  and then to the face. The whole idea is to lead the eye up to the face,  which is the most important part of the figure.  So I'm just mentioning a principle of design here, called repetition,  but actually there's repetition of color with variation of color.  I'm not talking red that is repeated everywhere here, there's some variation in the red,  like this red is darker and grayer than this red, so therefore this is  what is called color rhythm. When there's variation in the color that is being repeated,  the result is color rhythm rather than strict repetition, which results from exact repetition  of a color without any variation in it.  Now I'm going to bring in another illustration done by one of my favorite illustrators, Bernie Fuchs,  and here, like in the other examples, Bernie is using abstract shapes, and as you can see,  all of the shapes here are abstract shapes of the sails,  the ship, all more of a silhouette-like shape.  In other words, more abstract, and there's variations of tone in these shapes,  so they don't look completely flat, like a graphic shape, like I pointed out to you earlier.  There's some tonal variation within those shapes, and you can see the variations  also in the sky here, tonal variations, but it's an abstract shape.  In other words, it's a simple shape, and you see some tonal  variations in this shape, and here, of course,  but they're basically very simple abstract or silhouette-like shapes that he's using,  which of course helps to depict nighttime, but nighttime is illuminated  by the lightning bolt, of course, that you see there, so not everything is completely  dark or black. That was a brilliant idea, that was a way  that Bernie was able to get some light in the scene by having that lightning bolt there.  Not much local color is used because of the nighttime scene, but you do see  the color of the water here, the green and the yellow of the sky, but everything else  is not showing local colors,  again, because of nighttime. You're not going to see a lot of color at nighttime.  But Bernie is able to get some color in there because, like I said, the scene is being  illuminated somewhat by the lightning bolt.  I'm going to bring in another Bernie Fuchs illustration. Here it is.  Again, Bernie is using abstract shapes,  more silhouette-like shapes. All of this, of course, as you can see, is more  of a simple abstract shape, more of a silhouette-like shape,  keeping things really simple and abstract to help  get across this mood that he wants to establish here of these two characters  that are feeling stressful, troubled, and Bernie  helps to get that feeling of these characters across by way of  this busy texture that he has up here with all these branches going in all different directions,  this overall texture, which helps to reflect what the characters are feeling.  Again, like I showed you with the Degas painting,  the setting, what is in the setting, is being used to help express  what the characters are feeling. He didn't just add these branches  because he thought, oh, this looks interesting, this looks nice, I like that, so I'm going to just add a bunch  of branches going all over. No, it doesn't work that way.  He has a specific purpose in mind for creating this busy texture,  which is, like I said, to help express what the characters are feeling.  And, of course, the fact that he's using a dark tone here,  which helps to create this more depressing and gloomy mood,  or feeling. Now, some of you might say, well, all of this busy texture up here  is taking attention away from the figures.  Now, there's more focus on the figures here. Yeah, sure, but  you no longer get that feeling of what these characters are feeling  by doing that. Now, you see, it changes the whole feeling of the illustration.  And you get more of a feeling of what these characters must be feeling.  Later, I'm going to be doing a color sketch  of a spaceship. I'll be taking you through all of the various steps  that lead to the finished color sketch. It's not going to be a finished painting,  because that would take too long. But you're going to hear me talking about the various things  that I'm doing while I'm painting the sketch. And I'm going to be doing all of this  in real time. The spaceship is going to look more abstract,  unlike what you see here. Now, I didn't do this cover, but this is typical  of the style for spaceships that you see nowadays.  Very detailed, very tight and precise,  like in this example. Very detailed, as you can see.  This is the look that you mostly now find in  science fiction illustrations of spaceships, especially on paperback book covers.  This look or style has now become a cliché. Everybody's doing this.  However, occasionally, sometimes you do see an artist who uses a different approach  in which the style isn't like what you see here,  very tight and detailed and precise look, but rather a more abstract approach,  which is the approach that I'm going to take doing this rough color sketch.  And here's another example of the style that you see everywhere now.  It's like all these artists are just copying each other  While this is very well done, they all lack that abstraction  that I pointed out to you. So in this rough sketch that I'm going to be doing,  I'm going to use a more abstract approach, in sharp contrast  to these examples. And even  to this one. Now, some of you might recognize who this artist  is that painted this. It's the great John Berkey.  He was famous for painting spaceships. Now, this painting comes  closer to the emotional form that I've been talking about in this video than  this example here. Berkey hasn't really gone far  enough to make this even more abstract. So I'm going to take my sketch  somewhat further than what you see here.  Here's an illustration that was  done by the great Bob Peake. I'm showing you one of the illustrations he did  for a movie called Rollerball. He did a series of these illustrations  in this more abstract style. This has great visual  appeal, not only because of the abstraction, but because of all these  principles of design that Peake was able to get into this illustration,  which are all part of creating this emotional form  that Ben Stahl talks about in his great textbook and that I've been pointing out to you.  So here you see an example of these abstract shapes  that Peake uses. Another artist most likely will not  have painted the motorcycles in such an abstract style.  Most likely the artist will have painted the motorcycles more realistically  and where you see the various details of the motorcycles  a more tight look, a more representational look of the motorcycles.  But I can tell you that that kind of style  wouldn't have the emotional impact that this style has, which is more abstract.  That's why artists like Bob Peake or Bernie Fuchs turned to a more abstract  style later in their life. Their style begins  to change because they begin to realize that a more abstract  style like this in which the principles of design are applied  is able to express mood in a much more powerful way  than a more strictly realistic, more tight look.  Now Peake didn't make this subject  look realistic because he understood that reality in art is independent  of literal visual scenes and objects. Art has its own truth  and reason for being and this is Peake's truth  of the subject that he is showing us. He has created a kind of  new reality that is much more visually interesting and exciting to look at  than real reality and thereby lets us see the subject  in a new way, in a fresh way, in a way that we haven't seen before  and that gives us an emotional experience.  One of the great illustrations is all about mostly  emotion. Sure, there's story involved, but it's the  emotional form that should become more important.  And emotional form isn't just about abstraction. It is adding all those  other additional things of picture making like I've been pointing out, like  the principles of design and lighting, value patterns,  animation and so on. All of the components of picture making, in addition to  the abstraction, results in what is called emotional form.  And there can be different degrees of abstraction.  Like Ben Stahl shows in his chart here that I showed you earlier  in the video. You have to decide  how abstract you want to make your subject. How powerful do you  want the mood to be? If you focus only on story  and neglect creating emotional form or creative form  as it's also called by Ben Stahl, then of course you end up with what I showed you  earlier. Just story without emotional form.  Here there is only story. Here there is story, but also  emotional form. Now let me show you another  example of what Bob Peake did for the movie Rollerball.  And here again he uses the same more abstract approach.  You can see the many abstract shapes that he uses here.  This is almost like an abstract painting, but you can still see  what the subject is here. And you can still see that there is a story going on.  And the great visual appeal comes not just from the abstract shapes, but from  applying all of the various principles of design, which  makes this so visually arresting. And in combination with  the abstract shapes that he uses, a powerful mood is created.  And here is another Rollerball  illustration again in which he uses this more abstract style.  Now some of you might be locked into a more realistic way  of painting. And when you see something like this you might think, oh this looks like  just a color sketch. Well it goes far beyond just being a color  sketch. It is sketch-like, but it goes  further than just making a quick rough color sketch.  A lot of thinking went into creating this illustration. A lot of  planning, although it might look like it was done spontaneously on the spur of the  moment. That's not the case. Beginning art students  really don't have a clue as to just how much goes  into the making of an illustration like this. So now let me show you  another illustration, but this one wasn't done for the movie Rollerball. This was done for  the movie Excalibur. And here again you see Bob Peake's more  abstract approach to illustration, which results in a powerful  mood when in addition to the abstraction as I stated earlier  the principles of design are also applied. And again he shows  us not the way reality actually looks, but the way he sees  reality. So we are seeing reality through his eyes, a  different kind of reality. Other artists, they might have gotten  so hung up on trying to paint a realistic looking head  that they would never think about painting a head like you see here.  But here Peake shows us a head in a different way.  He shows us what the head looks like to him. So we're  seeing it through his eyes.  And here is yet another Bob Peake illustration, again done for the movie Excalibur.  And this looks more like a color sketch, but again it's not  really at the level of just a quick rough color sketch. It goes far beyond  that. And again he shows us the subject in a more abstract  style, a more simplified style.  The combination of this abstraction along with the principles of design applied  creates a powerful mood, gives this illustration emotional form.  So how do you think  Peake began this painting?  He didn't start right in on doing the painting.  No, he first worked out the composition and the color and the lighting and all  the principles of design that go into the making of  an illustration in rough thumbnail sketches like this.  See these are his sketches. This is what he does first. Unlike so many  students who want to jump right in to do the finished art.  This is how he started working out his compositions.  Before he did this.  You can see how brilliant Peake was.  Even in these rough little thumbnail sketches that he did. So many design principles  can be found in just these rough sketches. These  thumbnail sketches are better in my opinion than some finished art that some artists  make. If you know what the color design principles are for example  you can see them right here. There's color repetition.  Color variation. Color placement. So many different color design principles  can be found just in this rough thumbnail sketch. And notice how  he leans everything. He puts it at an angle to make the whole scene more  dynamic. And he's doing that even at this early stage when he's  just doing these quick rough thumbnail sketches. Look how beautiful this is.  This little rough thumbnail sketch. Or even this one here.  You can already see various color design principles being applied  here. Just as they are in all of these thumbnail sketches.  You can't do these kind of thumbnail sketches until you've learned the principles  of design. Of composition. Of placement. Of value patterns.  Of color and lighting. All the various components that go into the  making of an illustration. There's so much that goes into  even simple looking rough thumbnail sketches like this. But they're really not  simple. Because of all of the various principles that can be found even in these  thumbnail sketches. The principle of repetition is applied. This figure  is repeated again and again. With a little bit more work  it can turn this into a finished painting. Or this. A little bit more work  and it can turn into a finished painting of this quality.  The difference between this and this  isn't all that great. Why? Well because that has the principles of design  as well as this having the principles of design.  So I'm going to do my painting. But before I do the painting I'm going to  do some rough thumbnail sketches like what Peek did.  I'm going to do some quick thumbnail sketches. Really quick and rough.  I'm not going to spend a lot of time on them. I just want to show you how I begin.  Maybe something like this. A spaceship  is at an angle like this.  Maybe there's a sun over here. And  this is the usual black space that you see.  I'll add green like this.  And the sun of course is going to be yellow.  Or it could be a red dwarf. And a red dwarf of course is going to be red.  So this is some solar system in which there is a red dwarf.  And it makes a nice little accent there.  And then I'm thinking well the spaceship could be maybe blue like this.  Then  the part of the spaceship that's in the light is going to be  leaning a bit towards the blue violet because when red mixes with blue you get violet.  So this is of course much rougher than what Peek did  because I'm not going to spend a lot of time on this.  So that's the first rough thumbnail sketch and I add  color and the color of course will change possibly later on  when I do the finish. So let me try something else.  And maybe  spaceship has this kind of shape. This is its basic shape  like this. And let's say there's a nebula here.  A little blue nebula instead of the black space.  Adding this blue nebula gives me a reason why I can make  space blue instead of black.  And let's see. The sun is shining  on the spaceship below like this.  And I'll add a yellow sun for this one.  Down here somewhere. So the color pattern is  red against blue with an accent of yellow.  Here the color pattern is blue against green  with an accent of the red sun. Keeping it really  simple. So I'm going to add some darks here.  So something like that. Then moving on  to another quick sketch. This time I'm going to do  something like this for example. Say that this  spaceship is more triangular.  Keeping it more abstract.  And again like in the first sketch I'm going to make this spaceship blue.  Dark blue.  And this time I'm going to add a red nebula.  Like this. Just to get away from the  cliche of always using black for space.  Then  yellow sun.  Yellow sun.  Say right there.  And some lighting on the spaceship like this.  And some accents of red within the blue  here like this. More saturated.  See even these little rough thumbnail sketches look interesting  because I'm applying various color principles of design  just like Pieck was applying various color principles of design.  So looking at these three I'm thinking well I'm going to go with this one.  Now remember this is just going to be a rough color sketch. It's not going to be a finished painting because that just takes  too much time. And I'm going to be doing it in real time.  I'm going to start off  by selecting a color here. This red.  Then I'm going to create the format shape.  Which is the shape of paperback book covers that I do.  Something like this. It's just going to be a quick rough sketch.  But it's going to be different from what you're used to seeing when it comes to spaceships.  So I'm using the chalk brush and as you can see here  I flattened out the circle like that. Put it at an angle.  I have transfer selected as well as texture. Now I decide on the background color.  And I'm doing this in real time. Cooler blues.  Warmer blues. Some of you might be thinking well how can a blue  which is considered a cool color, how can it be either a warm  or cool blue? Well let me just quickly point something out here.  So here's the color wheel and at the top of the color wheel is the yellow  and at the bottom of the color wheel is the violet.  And then right about here that's  where the blue is. Now if that blue contains some yellow  it is considered a warmer blue than a blue  that contains some violet.  But other factors can also enter in depending on what the context  is in which that blue is seen. That is what are the colors that  surround that blue which can make the blue look warmer or cooler. Also you have to  take into consideration how desaturated that color is or how  saturated it is will also cause the blue to appear warmer or cooler.  So let's say I have a blue  that is something like an ultramarine blue which is  a blue similar to this. And then I add some yellow to that blue  which gives me more of a cyan blue like that.  Because the ultramarine blue  contains some violet it is considered cooler than the cyan  which contains some yellow. So in my color sketches you're going to  see me using ultramarine for the shadows and cyan for  those parts that are illuminated by the light source which of course are  warmer blues than the blues found in the shadow.  So maybe something like this grade  blue.  And I might lighten that up a little bit. However I'm not going to  add that to the entire surface. What I'm going to do now is add a different blue, a warmer blue  keeping the same value so I don't end up with a spotty looking  background here of different values. And these colors are next to each other on the color  wheel. Blue, blue, violet. And then let's go to blue, blue, green  also like this. And then the complement  to blue which is orange to add stronger  color contrast here of warmer color.  Something like that maybe. Colors will change as the painting continues.  And then switching to the mixer brush you see right there then up here  I'm going to select moist. Well you don't see that menu but I'm selecting moist at the top  here for the mixer brush. Then I'm going to come down and I'm going to  mix all of this together like this.  So what I'm doing is I'm mingling the colors together like this. And right now this is a midtone  picking up colors here and there by selecting alt  p c, pressing down on the alt key then selecting a color  and that color mixes in with the other colors there. Some warmer colors, some red  mixed in there as well like this. Just getting a lot of color variety in there.  So some colors are analogous, others are further apart on the color wheel. If you don't know  the color wheel that's something you're going to need to learn. That's going to come in very handy  something like that. That's my ground to work on. Now on another layer over this one  I'm going to just add some kind of shape. This is going to be more abstract  a different kind of style for a spaceship. A lot of spaceships nowadays  with the concept art and even with the paperback book covers, they pretty much all have  the same sort of style. A more highly detailed, more realistic look.  So I'm going to avoid that cliche, that's what it's become now, a cliche and I'm going to do something  different. Occasionally you do see an artist that uses a somewhat different style than the cliche style  for spaceships. So I'm going to go even further than what you usually see  and I call this realistic abstraction. So I want to get away from this really tight  highly polished Photoshop look that so many spaceship  paintings have nowadays. Do something quite different. So I start out  by establishing a dark silhouette shape of one color like this  and not sure yet what the shape is going to look like for this spaceship  but the idea is to get some kind of abstract shape down. Then I add  other blues, warmer blues, cooler blues within that. More saturated  not too much saturation however, keeping it more on the gray side  and different shades, in other words, of the blue and some darks also like that, really darks  like that. Changing the size of the brush  occasionally, small brush strokes, big brush strokes  sculpting the shape like this, picking up some of the background color  and slowly some kind of shape for the spaceship emerges  thinking about clarity, the ship needs to read clearly and when you make  a silhouette shape like this, the shape reads clearly, thinking about  what makes a good shape  and adding a bit of a red violet maybe  right there and darker, get the different shades in there, lighter, darker  also more saturated, less saturated and I repeat  that red and the orange also down here for color circulation  color repetition, the different names that artists use  sculpting that shape, making it more interesting, the whole thing is more abstract  thinking about the segments, longer segments, shorter segments at the edge  of the shape  not creating a lot of contrast in the corners, all the corners need to look somewhat  different so what I could do is maybe add a bit of a darker color  over here at the upper left but not too much  contrast there, then maybe a lighter color down here  like that so each of the corners looks different  now the idea here is to keep everything very abstract, loose  painterly looking  I'm beginning with a more amorphous shape, shape that is not clearly defined yet as to what that spaceship  is going to look like because everything is kept more abstract and I'm thinking only in terms of design  color design, value pattern  maybe that lighter blue that I added back there could be a planet  then what I could do is add a lighter color here, brighter color, not too bright, not overdoing it  and it's off center  more space down here, less space here, you have to be sensitive to spacing  get the right spacing, the different patches of color need to be of different sizes  and a brighter color down here as well to draw the eye down there also  but it's vertically positioned, that's not good  that's too static when you place a bright color like that and then you place another bright color right underneath it  it's too static, maybe another bright color down here  but a bit less bright so it doesn't attract as much attention  as this does, see everything is still abstract, I haven't given any definition  as to what this spaceship looks like yet but the general shape is there  and I'm thinking of direction  so maybe it's at an angle like that, see something like this  and that diagonal, this angle here going across like that  is in opposition to the major axis of the shape which is like that  so those angles are at right angle to each other  placing the lightest light against the darkest dark  so right here I'm adding a really dark  color like that  thinking of what the shapes look like, if they're interesting or not  and I'm thinking also of adding some of that red violet  into the background here, a little bit here and there, relating the  color of the background better to that abstract shape, cutting into that shape over here  at the top you see, to interlock the shape better with the shape in back of it  doing this in real time, now I have to find  some kind of motif that I can repeat in order to create more unity  so maybe see that shape right there, that could be my motif that I repeat  and something like this, different sizes  see that angled shape, repeated different sizes  so I'm going over that abstract shape with a line  everything is subject to change, I have one dominant shape but it's not dominant  enough so I have to bring this down more like this maybe  make that size a bit larger  sculpting the shape a bit  cutting into the shape up here  everything is subject to change, this is just a rough abstraction so far  I just keep adding shapes  and color until something emerges  that I can use to create this spaceship  with  see how things are changing  then I'm going to go to a really  light tone like that, placing that next to the darkest dark  always repeat your colors and values  for unity, lighter tones  repeating this pattern that I set up right there  always think about repetition  I could repeat that maybe up here as well  repetition of a pattern, thinking of perspective  so looking up at the spaceship, so the horizon is going to be down here somewhere  then this other spaceship here  mimics that larger spaceship to a certain degree  and it's detached from the larger spaceship  ...  it also has this kind of  triangle like shape like that  darkening  the bottom here, curving it more so that it looks more like you're looking up at it  also this needs to be curved more  spaceship is slowly beginning to emerge  so I added some green  it's a nice color accent there with the green  so since I added the green, I'll add red next to the green  and vary that red  a bit more saturated, a bit lighter  and let's see, maybe add some accents of red  here and there like that, color circulation  created, so what some of these things are  is left up to the imagination of the viewer, I'm not defining everything precisely  I'm just suggesting what this is in a very loose  abstract way  and I'm thinking of adding more lines like this  going across, creating a pattern there  maybe that shape needs to change a bit  maybe it needs to be more like this so that the overall shape becomes more of a triangle  like that, you see, that's an implied shape  ...  smaller shapes, larger shapes, thinner lines  thicker lines are used  the painting is constantly changing, change that blue shape in the background  which could be a planet  add some color variation like that, the values need to be close together  otherwise you're going to end up with a spotted looking painting  ...  then I'm going to  suggest that there's atmospheric perspective here, although in space there is no atmospheric perspective  but I'm breaking the rules, why? Well because it makes this  look visually more interesting  and the angle of that smaller spaceship is at the angle that the large spaceship has  so it's tied in, in terms of direction  with the larger spaceship  ...  so everything is curving like this  I don't want to give too much definition here, because the idea is that  you try to imagine what some of this actually looks like  I'm not providing all the information to you  so some edges are going to be hard  some edges more soft  ...  and a couple of little spots here, you see right there  so I'm giving some suggestion that this is a spaceship  but I do not want it to have too much definition  ...  a pattern like that, also maybe on the other side as well  maybe up there as well  repeating that pattern, but I think that's not going to work, so I'll just get rid of it  so you have to experiment  come out more with this shape here  then I'm thinking there are too many small shapes, so I just  get rid of some of those smaller shapes, like this  most of the smaller shapes should appear here, why?  because that's the center of interest  I needed larger, more empty areas  now what I'm thinking is, I need to enlarge this here  see how things keep changing, and they keep on changing until  I feel that I have a good design  so I have different sizes, the large size up here, medium size here, smaller size down here  and the whole shape, the implied shape as it's called  more of a triangle like that  ...  so I added some blue over here, and here, repeated the blue, always repeat the colors  and I'm applying various principles as I'm going along here  so you have to pay attention to what I'm telling you here  that I'm doing, because these are principles, and one of the principles is this  right here, for example, not just that that is the center of interest  here I have the smallest shapes, and a greater number of small shapes  all clustered together like this, and I'm going to probably add some more  and I'm going to add some white here as well, you see  white always adds a lot of interest  when you add accents of white like this, it really attracts the eye there  and of course the strongest contrast of values is here, because now I have the white  and this really dark value right there, right next to the white  so I'm focusing most of the  interest right here, but I may add a little bit  of white down here also, like that, just to repeat that white  and I also repeated it here, now the planet back here  that's not working, so I make some changes, go in there  and get rid of that, pick up some colors that are there like this  so what I'm going to do is I'm going to put the planet down here  like that, and I'm going to add some different blues  that are more grayed like that, also complement  which is of course orange to the blue, mix that in there as well  color excitement through opposing hues, complementary hues like blue  and orange, and then also I'm going to mix in some  blue violet like that, a bit more desaturated, so you get these  contrasting colors in there, warms and cools, lights and darks, then you mix them together, you got to get the right value  and here I'm looking for a darker value, so I'm going to have to add  a darker blue, more grayed like this  and some red in there, let's see what that looks like when I mingle the colors  together with the mixer brush  so I'm going to mix all those colors together, warms, cools, lights, darks  grays and colors that are a bit more saturated, all of that  little color variations in there that you can get when you mingle colors together like this  and I think it's a little too saturated, so all I have to do is  go to adjustments, down to hue saturation, and gray it, and let's see if I  darken it, something like this maybe  then I have to overlap the spaceship  the lower part of the spaceship like this with the planet, also on this other spaceship  it's further back, overlap the planet like that and that stops the eye from being  led out of the picture area like that toward the lower right  these are stoppers as they're called, they're blocking the eye from moving out of the picture area  then I think I'm going to add some  streaks here like this to suggest maybe land area or something  that's going on down there on that planet  and this doesn't look very interesting  so I'm going to make that shape a little bit different, maybe something like that  that looks a bit more interesting  now again I'm doing this in real time  ...  ...  ...  and this down here is not interesting enough  so I'm going to make some changes here  There's a quieter area here now, not much going on within that shape there.  All the activity is centered right there.  But I need to add a bit more interest here by adding some shapes there or some lines,  something to break up that large, dark, empty shape.  So I added some green, as you can see, and made a change down here.  So things are constantly changing.  And this shape at the top needs to be made even larger.  I need one large, dominant shape, something like that.  And the edge here needs to be softened a bit so it doesn't attract that much attention.  And when you add a pattern, that always adds interest, so I can add a pattern of lines,  something like this, you see.  So what is that?  Well, let the viewer figure out what that is.  Leave something for the imagination of the viewer.  I'm not spelling out everything, not making everything clear.  This is more of an abstraction.  And I think I'm going to add a shape over here like this.  So all of this makes more of a triangle shape, repeating the large triangle shape like that.  And then I added the dark over here on the right side, as you can see.  So the shape has changed significantly from the first initial shapes that I established.  Then what I could do is add some windows here, see?  Just these little spots, they suggest windows, and make it feel more like this is some kind  of huge spaceship.  Then what I could do is add a bit more of a saturated blue in the background there,  because the spaceship is very desaturated, and playing the more desaturated or grayed  color of the spaceship against a background that is a bit more saturated in color adds  a lot of interest.  And I have to vary that color somewhat, so I can add different blues like that, and maybe  just a touch of this reddish color, relates the background better to the spaceship, adds  some interest to color variety.  And maybe a little bit of that red could be added over here on the planet like that.  And maybe I'll add a pattern of lines over here like this.  So I added blue right there, repeating the blue that's up there.  Very important to get color repetition into your color designs, and I think I'll repeat  that blue down here as well, right there.  So what I need to do, I think, right over there, you see, I need to add some negative  space like that, and I'm going to add more sharp edges right there.  Then I need to add some really soft edges, almost like they're blurred.  Why?  Well, that helps to create a feeling of speed, actually, and also interest through a variety  of edges, some soft, some harder.  So I made a few more changes, as you can see, added a bit more of this reddish color and  blue and added these streaks that you see here.  See these streaks?  So what are they?  That's up to you to figure out.  Use your imagination.  I'm not stating everything explicitly, like I said.  This is an abstraction, and it just suggests or hints that this must be some kind of spaceship.  This is abstract realism, as it's called.  What I did here, you didn't see me do, is I took a photo of a nebula and just placed  it on top of the painting using the overlay blending mode, and that gives me a nice contrast  of hue, the reddish color in the background, which suggests a nebula, and the bluish color  of the spacecraft.  And I think I'm going to add that nebula to the planet here and see what that looks like.  So there's more work to be done on this, but I think this has a nice colorful look, interesting  combination of colors here.  And then I'm going to select a green, and let's see, maybe add that here, a brighter  green like that, suggesting maybe there's some light falling on that part of the spaceship,  and that adds more interest, because now I have a more saturated green that's leaning  toward the yellow green next to a more desaturated green.  That always adds interest when you do that.  Saturated next to desaturated and darker in value.  And then I think the spaceship has to be darkened a bit, so I'm going to go to Levels, see what  that looks like.  I think that's better.  See the more saturated, brighter color really pops out, draws your attention there, adds  a lot of interest, contrast with the darker or desaturated color surrounding it.  And the whole shape holds together better that way, reads nicely.  Now the planet I think needs to change a bit in hue and maybe value, so I'm going to  go to Color Balance and move the little slider over like that toward the blue.  So the blue color becomes the predominant color within this abstract, realistic painting.  Abstract realism, that's the style.  So I'm mainly concerned here with composition and color design.  And I think I'm going to add some stars here, sprinkle some stars in there, here and there.  Larger ones, smaller ones, not too many.  And a few at the top there, something like that.  Now the whole thing here was done in real time.  So what else can I do here?  Well, I'm going to introduce a circle shape, and I'm thinking of a sun that I'm going to  add here.  So I'm going to first of all select a yellow-orange that's a bit more, let's say, more reddish,  more of a red like that, a red-orange like this, and I'm going to place that sun maybe  right there.  So that's how I start out with that color, then I progress toward more of an orange,  something like this, and then to a more saturated yellow, add that like this, then come over  here with this shape and just overlap the sun a little bit like that, and adding this  in a very loose way as you can see, maybe a bit more red here around that sun, and then  some of that red-orange or orange color can be added here to the planet.  Pieck is the master.  He really knows what to do to arrive at this style that he used for Rollerball.  It's more abstract, not everything is presented realistically, and in my rough painting here,  this rough stage in the process, that also is more abstract and less realistic.  I'm not comparing this rough stage to Pieck's, I'm just showing you that both are more abstract.  The more I would work on this rough sketch, the more it's going to tighten up and the  less and less abstract it will look.  That's the problem when you're working on a painting much longer than you really should  be if you're after a more fluid, more abstract, less realistic look and less tight look.  The more you work on it, the tighter the painting is going to look and the more realistic it's  going to begin to look.  What I'm going to do now is, for example, I'm going to add something on the right side  here to break up the symmetry.  So what would that be?  Well, I could do something like this, maybe add this curve going across like that, but  keeping everything really loose and rough.  Just like in Pieck's painting, if I start painting things carefully, then it's going  to tighten up and I'm not going to get that more abstract quality into the painting.  Then I could maybe add a red down here as well, like this, and this creates a movement.  The eye follows these reds, looks at this red, and then looks at that red.  The eye is brought up to that other red, there's a connection formed, and to strengthen that  upward movement, I could add maybe a red right there, you see?  So whenever you repeat a color, you're creating a kind of invisible line that the eye follows.  The eye jumps from one red to the next one, to the next one, so there's a movement set  up.  But you see, I'm keeping everything really loose and rough, not perfect perspective or  anything like that.  So right now, as this painting is, my sketch here, this is the kind of style for spaceships  that you don't see a lot of, that are done in this more abstract style.  It looks visually interesting, however, and that's because of the principles of design  that have been added.  Then I could add some light falling on the left side of the spaceship, and doing this  really quick, maybe a blue, something like this maybe, let's see what that looks like.  Add it right there, on the underside of that form.  The whole idea is to keep things really loose, not tightening up the painting at all, just  keeping it more abstract and loose like this.  Once I start tightening up and start fiddling around with details, then it begins to take  more of a realistic appearance, and then I would be getting away from this more abstract look.  So the important thing is to put down the color in bold, broad strokes like this, and  leave it.  Don't start fiddling around with it, trying to get a more tight and realistic look.  That's not the point here.  The point is to keep things more loose, more abstract looking.  So then I could add another blue, let's see, something like this maybe, right here.  See how rough I'm adding that blue?  If I painted it in carefully like this, then I would start getting away from the more abstract  look.  And keeping it rough like this, that helps to add to the more abstract look.  And I'm repeating colors, like this blue here, I'm repeating it on the planet, and then let's  say I'm adding some lines here on the planet, like this, curving around.  Then I'm going to repeat the yellow of the sun over here, like this.  And here again, it's this principle of the spot, to move the eye within the composition.  Repeating a color, like I showed you with the red here, the eye will follow that color,  create a kind of invisible line like this, between the two colors, so the eye jumps from  one yellow to the other one.  And subtract it to another color that is the same, or very similar.  And I'm going to add a little bit of white, right there.  That helps to add more interest.  Then I'm going to add a little bit of violet to the nebula back there, a little bit, like  I indicated on my little thumbnail sketch.  Then I'm going to add a few stars, like this.  So that's all I'm going to do on this rough sketch, this more abstract looking style.  And the whole idea here is to quickly put down the strokes, not go over them too many  times, preferably just put them down once.  In this painting by Pieck, I'm sure he worked quickly when he did this painting.  He's known to work out a painting in a few days, but then when he did the finish, he  did that in two days.  So he actually took longer to work out the painting, the composition, the color, and  all those things that you need to know about and apply.  He worked those out, which took longer than doing the finished painting.  For Pieck to be able to get this more abstract style here, he would have had to work quickly.  So I did a few more things on my painting over here, such as adding more red that you  see there, and I added these small spaceships to help give scale to the big spaceship.  They make that big spaceship look big.  And I did a few other things as well, but that's all that I'm going to do on this.  If I continue working on it, I'm going to be tightening it up too much, and it's going  to get a different style than the one that you see here.  I wanted this more spontaneous, loose, more free look.  I wanted to get away from that cliche of painting the spaceships that you see nowadays that  I showed you earlier, this spaceship here, and this one.  While these are nicely done, they become cliches.  I wanted a different way to show a spaceship, a more fresh, creative, or inventive way of  showing a spaceship.  So I came up with this style here.  But this is not the usual style that I work in when I'm doing a paperback book cover.  I'm going to do another spaceship, but you're not going to see me painting it because it's  going to take too long.  And that other painting that I'm going to be doing, that is going to be done in the  style that I use for painting paperback book covers.  So it's going to look quite different from this style.  Nowadays, it seems like everybody is copying everybody else.  Try to do something different.  Show the subject in a way that it's never been seen before, in a fresh, inventive way.  While these paintings here are correct in their construction, and the perspective is  good, and they look really nicely rendered, they have a smooth texture, nothing rough  about them, they look perfect, a little too perfect, I would say.  They don't have any real visual interest.  So they look more perfectly constructed, but that shouldn't be your end goal in painting  a spaceship or any other subject.  Back in the 1960s, art directors gave the illustrators a creative freedom that you don't  see nowadays.  It was left up to the artist to come up with something fresh, something different, to capture  the imagination of the reader.  Those were the days of the great illustrators like Bernie Fuchs or Bob Peake.  This is a Bob Peake painting.  It's a movie poster for the movie My Fair Lady.  The drawings by these great illustrators were excellent.  They were color exciting, like you see here.  Their illustrations were imaginatively done, and they had great freedom to do what they  thought needs to be done, to show the subject in a fresh, new way, like what Peake did here.  In those days, there was no dominating school of drawing or painting.  Many illustrations in those days reflected a broad latitude of excellence in varying  techniques because the art director gave the illustrator the freedom to experiment,  to be creative.  So these great illustrators of the 60s, they copied no techniques, no trends, or they didn't  belong to any particular school of painting.  Nowadays they try to fit the illustrator or concept artist into painting in a particular  style.  If you don't paint in that style, you don't get the job.  Those days of creative freedom that the art director gave the illustrators are long gone.  Bob Peake was incredibly creative.  Just look at this illustration, how he shows us the subject.  Not in the more usual style of showing a subject like this more realistically, but here he  uses a more stylized approach and therefore he can use white.  See he's using white.  They usually say don't use white.  Well that's true if you're painting a more realistic looking subject.  But when you're stylizing like he did, you can break that rule and you can use white  like he did here.  And you can even use black.  See how he groups everything together, creating a compact composition.  He was brilliant at composition.  What I'm going to do now is I'm going to jump ahead and show you that other version of the  spaceship that I painted in a more polished, tight style than the one that I painted over  here.  And here's my other painting.  As you can see, this painting has a different style.  It has a more tight and highly polished look, lots more detail here.  This painting I wasn't able to paint with the same amount of freedom and bravado that  I was able to use painting the one on the left.  When you're painting the one on the left in a more loose abstract style like that, then  you have a greater freedom of painting.  But in a style like the one on the right, you have to be more careful and it takes a  lot longer to paint something like that than the one on the left.  I tried to apply the same principles of color and design that I applied to the one on the  left.  So this painting on the right has a cool color temperature dominance.  And I tried to get as many of these principles of color and design into this painting as  I had time for.  One of the principles I applied is the principle of color repetition.  And you can see the red here, for example, being repeated again and again and it leads  the eye up to the yellow over here.  This whole area is the center of interest.  Spaceship is moving in this direction.  The yellow that you see here is repeated here and here.  So your eye follows that yellow just as it follows the red like that.  And the eye is led to where these curves are that lead down like that.  And then the curve is picked up by that curve.  So it creates this kind of S-like rhythm, you see, like that, that moves the eye through  the spaceship.  And then you start all over again, moving up the spaceship.  This little spaceship is moving your eye up in the direction of where the reds are,  which lead your eye up to the focal point again.  Down here you see the city and these curves, they bring your eye into the painting like  that.  The eye is stopped by the moon here.  If that moon wasn't there, then the edge of the planet here could lead your eye out  like that.  So that moon is a stopper, as it's called.  And then, of course, the spaceship leads your eye back up like I said.  As a matter of fact, I should darken this part right here, you see, right there where  the edge of the moon is.  Those light lines shouldn't touch the moon.  And of course, this spaceship here also brings your eye into the picture and up toward the  spacecraft.  Lots of repetition of color.  Same principle I applied to my sketch on the left here.  Repetition of color with variation of color.  I can't really go into all of the various principles I applied here, that would just  take too long.  There's also repetition of shape and form.  You see these egg-like forms repeated again and again.  Curving forms, here's a big one right there.  Then there's another one right there like that, coming around, repeating this big one  up here.  Different sizes, large forms, smaller forms, adds interest, the principle of size, of contrast  of size has been applied.  This large form in the foreground, smaller ones further back, that helps create a feeling  of depth.  So there's a lot going on here.  The style on the right is the style that I use when I paint paperback book covers.  I don't really use the style on the left.  Although there are some artists that use a similar style for paperback book covers, and  here's an example of that.  You see it's similar to my rough color sketch.  Here the artist of course wasn't concerned with creating a more tight and highly polished  look.  He was concerned mainly with color design and giving the painting a bit more of an abstract  quality.  Nicely done, I think.  But this is the kind of style that you rarely see on a paperback book cover.  Usually it's more like this style here on the right.  I'm going to bring in another painting by my favorite artist for painting spaceships.  And this was done by the great John Berkey.  I'm sure you've seen his paintings, and if you haven't, then check him out at Google.  What a beauty this is.  And John Berkey applies the principles of design and principles of color design.  That's one of the reasons why this is such a stunning image.  It creates a nice balance between a more abstract look and more realistic.  Some parts look more abstract, other parts look more realistic, lots of detail.  He was a master at applying detail.  No one could really apply detail the way he did to spaceships, although they tried,  but really were never able to apply the kind of detail that he was able to apply.  I don't know how he did it, but he had a knack for this.  I'm going to enlarge part of this painting so you can see the detail close up.  So you see all this detail here and here, here, here.  And then he balances it with quiet areas or empty areas.  Let you see right here, for example, that's empty.  There's nothing going on here.  But right next to that empty area, he places all of his detail.  So he creates this balance of more detailed areas with empty areas.  One of the interesting things about John Berkey is that he was mostly self-taught.  He didn't go to some brick-and-mortar school where he spent $150,000 to learn this.  No, you don't have to.  Nowadays with so much art information available, you don't have to spend $150,000 to learn  this.  Some students are still under the delusion that you have to spend a lot if you want to  learn a lot.  No.  That's how they get you to spend a lot.  You can get quality art education nowadays for a lot less than spending $150,000 going  to a brick-and-mortar art school.  In my opinion, that is ridiculous.  Now I'm going to bring in another painting by John Berkey, and this is another beauty.  John Berkey uses fewer colors.  He's learned the importance of applying economy of color.  He's restricting color to only a few colors.  And here he restricts his colors to blue, which you see in space here, then on the moon  and the planet, but there are different blues.  He creates variations of the blues, and then he applies also red, you see here.  So the larger areas and shapes have the colors that predominate.  And then he adds smaller, more saturated colors that act as accents.  So this is basically a two-color scheme, red and blue.  Neutralized color predominates, with small, saturated color acting as accents, like I  showed you with the red here, and then the more saturated blue that you see here, and  of course the planet is also saturated, but there are more grayed colors.  The whites that you see here, they're a neutral.  White is a neutral, so that falls into the category of neutral color, when you use white,  but it's an off-white.  I'm going to bring in the color picker, and then I'm going to select this white here.  You see, it's not a pure white.  When you look at the corner right there, where the little circle color selector is,  it isn't exactly right in the corner.  So I'm going to add that over here, see that?  That white?  It looks like white, but then when I move the little color selector right into the corner,  and I apply that white, you see the difference?  There's a slight difference here.  In the painting it looks like white, but it's really not, it's an off-white.  When you're doing a more realistic painting like this, for example, it's not a good idea  to use pure white, because when you use pure white in combination with other colors that  are darker, the contrast becomes too stark looking.  So the artist tends to use an off-white.  Now when it comes to composition, it's interesting what Berkey does here.  He bases the composition on a curve like that, going right up to the planet.  All of that is aligned to form this curve, and then he opposes that direction of the  curve with the edge of the moon here, which goes in an opposing direction, forming a kind  of cross design.  Now Berkey creates a movement within this composition by way of these more saturated  colors except for that one, that isn't a saturated color, but nevertheless the eye does go there  and then up here to that saturated red.  So he's creating this flow or compositional movement by way of these spots of saturated  color, creating a path that the eye follows like that.  Now this is more desaturated, but it's a warm color that's placed against a cool neutral,  and there's some blue in that white.  It's an off-white, like I said, that has just a tinge of blue in it, although you can't  really tell here looking at that.  So these spots of color form this movement that the eye follows up to that red spot.  So he uses accents of color that are more saturated placed against a neutral, therefore  those spots of color stand out and they act as a kind of stepping stones, moving the eye  upward.  And you have to include this color here also, as well as of course this blue.  He had good drawing skills, was good with composition and color, and of course he had  many imitators, even today there are imitators, but of course they can't paint like Berkey.  Only Berkey was able to paint like Berkey.  And only Bob Peake could paint like Bob Peake.  Don't try to paint like some other artist that you admire, you're never going to be  able to.  That's why you have to develop your own style, your own way of painting.  You can learn from them, but don't imitate them.  One of the reasons why these great artists became famous is because they had a unique  style unlike other artists.  And they came up with a style that everyone else tried to copy.  So you had a lot of Bob Peake imitators, a lot of Berkey imitators, a lot of Bernie Fuchs  imitators.  So I showed you one way of beginning a painting when I did this more abstract like color sketch.  There are different ways to begin of course, and as I said I was working in real time and  this enabled me to point out some principles of design and color that I was applying while  I was painting this sketch.  And my color sketch on the left is closer to what Peake did here in this style where  color design becomes very important.  And my painting here on the right has of course a different style.  Not quite the more abstract approach that Peake took with his painting.  I'm going to do another quick sketch but it's going to be of a different design and it's  going to be more abstract.  Now I have to do this quick and I'm doing all of this in real time so there are things  that I have to skip.  I can't show you every single step in this process.  But you saw some of the process that I go through for a more abstract style with the  first painting that I did of the spaceship.  Well what needs to be done first of all is to find a color scheme.  If you're familiar with the color wheel, you use the color wheel to find the color scheme.  So I make this little sketch here and the colors I'm thinking of using is orange.  Let's make that a little more orange.  Doing this really quick in real time.  That's a little too red.  So it's like that, orange, then yellow orange.  So that's going to be the color right next to orange.  Then I need a contrasting color and the one that I'm going to be using is blue green.  Blue green falls about there on the color wheel.  Then I can add a couple of accent colors.  So this is a triadic color scheme, makes a triangle and I can use a couple of discord  colors such as, for example, violet falls about there and then yellow green.  I could use a couple of these discord colors that are accent colors.  So that's basically the color scheme.  So what comes next is to come up with some kind of concept for this spaceship.  One way of doing that is to look at photos, for example, like this here of this industrial  plant and I can get ideas just by looking at this.  I can pick up certain parts of this photo that I can incorporate into my painting of  a spaceship.  Use whatever you can that will help you to come up with ideas for what the spaceship  can look like.  It's best not to start cold, although sometimes you can do that, but usually it's better to  look at some kind of reference from which you can get ideas as to what can be done.  So I want this new version to be of a different style than this.  I want it to be much more loose.  So I'm going to tone the surface here with this gray, yellow, orange like that.  So I did a quick rough sketch here of the spaceship.  Next thing to do is just to add the local color and value here of the spaceship, doing  it in real time really quick.  But I can't really show you every single step because that would just take too long.  I just want to show you a more abstract spaceship than the one that I did that has a more tight  and polished look.  So again, you can see it's a large spaceship taking up much of the picture area.  So I'm looking at the photo over here and thinking about incorporating certain forms  from that photo, some of these pipes, different forms that I see there that I'll integrate  into the painting.  Light color nebula in the background, then I'm going to add some colors to the nebula  and moving a little color slider around on the color picker like this, getting different  shades of that orange color, moving the color selector up more toward the yellow orange,  keeping the colors more on the gray side like this, you see, variety, back down to  a more orange, adding some of that, picking up some colors from different parts of the  nebula here, mixing them in with the other colors.  Now I'm going to add some darker color onto the spaceship, sculpting the shapes a bit  with this dark, thinking of the overall shape, keeping things rather fluid and loose, very  loose.  I'm going to darken the value a bit more.  Add a strong value pattern, dark tone against the light background, darker planet down here.  Right now it doesn't look like much, that's the way it is in the beginning.  So I changed the color scheme a little bit, instead of the orange, I'm going to go more  for a red orange.  So here's the color wheel again, I'm going to move that orange color down a bit, more  of a red orange, that would put it right about here.  So that's the scheme I'm going to use.  See I always make changes as I'm painting.  So the color scheme is red orange, yellow orange, and blue green.  I'm going to darken that background there at the top a bit more, keeping all the colors  more neutralized or more muted looking.  Now I'm moving that color selector around really quick, getting different shades of  that color.  Then I'm going to add a great red orange into the spaceship, I'm going to go dark, give  some definition to some parts here.  Some shapes are repeated, but I have to be careful that they don't look like clones.  There has to be enough variety to make them look different.  The shape needs to be made interesting looking, that is the silhouette shape.  See how I'm cutting into that dark shape at the background?  And maybe on this side also.  So it's slowly taking shape, and I'm going to add a moon down here, stop the eye from  moving out of the picture on the lower right.  Slight indication of a sun, right there maybe, like that.  And then just quickly add some dark lines like this, suggest some detail here and there  within the spaceship.  Also it's the pipes maybe going in different directions.  This is still very rough as you can see, there's a lot more work that needs to be done.  Even though this is just a more abstract style, I'm more concerned here with shapes than with  anything else.  It still is going to take a lot of work to bring this to a more finished state, therefore  I can't really show you everything that still needs to be done.  But I will show you the finished abstract painting of the spaceship.  It needs to be darkened, right now it has too much of a mid-tone look, so I'm going  to go to Adjustments and over to Levels, that's a quick way to darken it.  Check it in black and white, see the value pattern, see the simple dark against light  pattern.  Now what I could do is add the blue-green that you see right there in that color scheme,  pick it up there but then I can move my color selector to other spots to get different shades  and just lightly indicate it here and there like this, not too much.  Then I can pick up the red-orange, add that different spots here and there, keeping the  color more desaturated right now, but then the color will need to become more saturated  in order to just enliven the whole painting, give it that spark that it needs, but that  comes later.  And I could even add these discords, these accents here, and when you add them, you keep  them small, and the yellow-green maybe right there.  I could pick up the yellow-orange and a bit more saturated right there like that, and  a bit more saturated red-orange.  The sun needs to be more saturated of course, and some of the red-orange surrounds that  yellow sun.  Now I'm going to add some red-orange but desaturated and darker within the spaceship like this  here and there, see?  Add some color variety, and I'm going to add a little bit of the yellow-green up here.  So I have to move the sun upward because I want the top to be illuminated, I want the  top instead of the bottom.  So the sun needs to be further up, and first I'll add some red here and there, then this  part is going to be illuminated underneath here, something like that.  Doing this really quick.  Now I'm going to move the little color slider up, change the hue somewhat, more of the color  of the light source, so it's more of a yellow-orange, something like that.  So I'm still roughing it in at this stage, later I will make all sorts of refinements  and changes and additions of detail, but not at this stage.  You can begin to see here that I'm more concerned with the abstract shapes than I am with any  realistic depiction of the subject.  So I'm going to add a bit more of the blue-green, and I'm going to add a more saturated red  up here, see, toward the top, and down here also.  Then I need to add some darker darks in the spaceship, maybe something like this for now.  I need some straights to balance the curves, and this moon over here isn't working in that  position, it looks too awkward in that position there.  The planet needs to be darkened somewhat.  I think I need to darken the painting a bit more, so I'm going to go to Levels again,  move the little slider over, that strengthens the pattern.  So I think what I'm going to do now is I'm going to continue working on this, there's  still a lot of work to do to finish this, but you're not going to see me do that, it's  going to take a lot more time to finish this up, so once I finish it I'm going to show  you what it looks like.  So here's the painting carried much further, it looks quite different from the previous  stage, which is this one, but essentially the composition has remained the same.  I've added some small spaceships to give scale to the large spaceship, make it look even  bigger, and help to direct the eye toward the big spaceship.  And the problem of the eye being led out of the picture right here at the edge of the  planet has been solved by placing this spaceship here, that's moving the eye back into the  picture and toward the big spaceship.  Color repetition with variation is very important, the blue-green that you see here on the spaceship  has been applied to the background as well, and you see slight hints of that color here  and here and here, and that helps to relate the background to the spaceship better.  The intensity of color up here has been increased to draw the eye up to that area, which is  the center of interest.  I tried to get some of that abstract quality into my painting that Bernie Fuchs has applied  to his illustration, and my painting isn't quite as loose as Bob Peake's that you see  here.  My focus here is on the big, more simple, abstract-like shape, and there is some detail  within that abstract shape.  It's not completely flat, it's not a graphic shape in other words, but all that detail  is suggested.  I'm not making clear what is going on within the dark abstract shape, so I'm leaving it  up to the imagination of the viewer to fill in what I'm not explicitly stating here.  So my painting is a little bit tighter than the other abstract painting that I did.  That one on the left, I think you can see, has a bit of a looser look to it than the  one on the right.  There are, of course, different degrees of abstraction.  You can be more abstract, or less abstract.  And of course, these are not completely abstract, because there is still story here.  You can still make out that there is a subject that has been painted.  Unlike pure abstraction, which has no story, and no real subject.  In that other painting that I did on the left, as you can see, the style is quite different.  It has a much tighter and more highly polished look.  And my painting on the left has a greater saturation of color predominance than the  one on the right.  The one on the right has more grayed or muted colors.  You have to decide what the saturation of color predominance is going to be in your  painting.  Is it going to consist of more grayed colors or more saturated colors that predominate?  Now there is more that I could do to the painting on the right, but if I continue to work on  it, eventually it's going to tighten up and it's going to look more like the painting  on the left, which is not what I want for this painting on the right.  And now I'm going to move on and show you some more examples of Bob Peake's great illustrations  and talk a little bit more about design principles.  It's not rendering.  It's not perspective.  It's not tricky techniques.  It's not following every rule of picture making.  Lighting, of course, like you see here, has a lot to do with the visual appeal of the  painting as well.  But the big thing that you need to learn is this.  It's the student who gets it, who understands that it's the principles that they need to  learn, not so much rendering techniques, accuracy to the subject being painted.  Just look at the distortions here that Peake is applying.  Just look at this.  These motorcycles, they have been distorted, which helps to create a certain feeling, contributes  to the drama that's taking place here.  What you're responding to here is not the subject matter.  It's how Peake has presented the subject matter, how he's painted it.  That's what you're responding to, the harmony of color, the contrast of color, the contrast  of different sizes, the placement within the picture area of the subject, the color design,  the variations of color and tone, and all those things, value pattern, all those things  that make up the image.  Applied aesthetically is what you're responding to, not the subject matter.  Not these guys engaged in this battle over this ball, the roller ball, driving around  with their motorcycles.  That's not what is capturing your attention.  It's the principles of design being applied.  Students think, I have to get an interesting subject to paint, and then paint it as accurately  as I can, applying various techniques, and then I'm going to end up with a good painting.  No, you're not, because it takes a lot more.  It takes mainly this, if you want a visually, aesthetically pleasing image.  I think you understood that, and that's why, when you look at these paintings, you can't  take your eyes away.  You want to continue to look at them.  There's a visual excitement here, created with these contrasts, and contrast is one  of the principles of design.  Contrast creates excitement, but you need to know what kind of contrast, and how to  apply that contrast.  In this video, I can't go into teaching you the various principles of design.  It takes an entire course to really learn these principles, and eventually be able to  get more and more of them into your art.  This is not something that you can learn in a short art instruction video, like a 10 minute  or 15 minute video.  No way.  I love this style, and I find it much more interesting than any kind of more highly realistic  depiction of a subject.  It's not that easy to achieve.  In many ways, this sort of style is much more difficult to achieve than when you paint in  a more realistic way, just trying to copy the subject as faithfully as you can.  If you do that, you're not really being as creative as you would be if you tried to paint  in this style.  This style demands much more creativity from you than if you just went ahead and tried  to copy the subject the way it actually looks.  That's not being very creative, because you're just copying what's there.  But here, in this style, you have to be inventive.  You have to be creative.  Change the forms, the colors, add rhythms, and all those principles of design that become  more important than an accurate depiction of the subject.  He is transforming the subject.  He is transforming reality into a new kind of reality that looks more interesting, more  exciting, more intense, more fascinating than real reality.  This is what art is about.  It's about transforming reality into a new kind of reality.  Paintings like this, they look more spontaneously done, more fluid and abstract, resulting in  a more abstract style that we all can delight in.  Working in a more abstract realistic style like this will bring a greater sense of freedom  to your painting and keep you from slavishly copying reality, which is what so many art  students try to do.  Abstract realism lies between the figurative and the abstract.  It is about a more impressionistic style of painting that leaves much to the imagination  of the viewer.  It's like what you see here.  Here's another illustration by Bernie Fuchs, and what a beauty this is.  And here you can see Bernie using abstract shapes.  You see how simple these shapes are, making them abstract shapes and some tonal variation  in these shapes, very subtle tonal variations.  Let me turn this into a black and white and you can see right here, subtle tonal variations  also here, here.  But the overall shape is an abstract shape.  The whole illustration is more abstract, just beautifully done.  Now don't think that this is easy to do just because he's using these more simple abstract  shapes.  This is difficult to do, to get it right.  This is creative illustration, and creative illustration is more difficult to do than  illustration in which the artist tries to replicate reality.  Because if you're going to replicate reality, make the subject look the way it does in real  life, there's no creativity involved.  But here the artist needs to be creative.  He or she, they need to think how are they going to change the trees, make them look  different from the way they actually look, but still make them look like trees.  Painting the trees, or whatever subject it is, requires on the part of the artist to  be inventive and to invent shapes and forms that don't look like the object does in real  life, but the subject or object still needs to be recognizable, like what Pieck did here.  Pieck had to be inventive, he had to think about how he is going to show these motorcycles  and these riders.  He needed to invent this style, these shapes, these forms, but they're based on reality.  He didn't depart from reality entirely.  If he did that, then the subject matter wouldn't be recognizable, it would just be pure abstraction.  So this style lies somewhere between realism and abstraction, and that's what Bernie did  here in this illustration.  So over here you see a quick rough sketch that I did, and right now this sketch doesn't  have abstract shapes, like in Bernie's illustration or in Bob Pieck's.  So to make this more abstract, I need to reduce the detail.  So you see a lot of detail in the spaceship back here, and there's detail on the figure.  All of that needs to be simplified and the result will be more abstract like shapes.  So I'm going to darken the spaceship like this, just a quick and rough indication of  this dark tone, and I'm going to go right over the figure with this dark tone as well.  And then down here, the figure is standing on this little hill with rocks.  Now the shapes have become more abstract.  Detail is no longer as important as it was before, just like in Bernie's illustration  here.  I'm going to lighten the tone a little bit like that, then I'm going to make the clothing  on the figure darker, like this.  Clothing becomes an abstract shape, and all of this is a dark shape, dark abstract shape,  the hair also, keeping things really simple.  The gun the figure is holding is also going to be dark, like this, I'm doing this really  quick and rough in real time.  Gun is also an abstract shape.  Like I've been saying, when you simplify the shapes like in Bernie's illustration, and  like what I'm doing here, you're making abstract shapes.  Matter of fact, what I'm going to do is reduce the detail on the spaceship even more, like  this, so that the overall shape looks more simple, more silhouette-like, more abstract.  Then what I'm going to do is I'm going to add a light tone right here, which is surrounded  by all that dark tone, and by doing that, I've created an area of emphasis right here.  Eyes drawn to this contrast of tones, light and dark tones, contrasting like that, and  I'll add a lighter tone to the face as well.  Then I'm going to add a tone like this to the sky area, but as you can see, it's a light  tone, coming down to where the mountains are, add that same tone there.  Then I'm going to add a light tone where the engines are, where the fire from the engines  is coming out, like that.  Then on the figure right here, I need to make that tone even lighter, creating a strong  value contrast right there.  Even though this light tone here is as light as this tone, the eye goes here, and not here.  Why is that?  Well, because the value contrast is less here than it is here.  So I can use the same light tone in both places and know that the eye is not going  to go here as much as it will here.  So now this little sketch has more abstract like shapes, like in Bernie's illustration.  Then I could add some slight tonal variations within the clothing, like here for example,  just a slight suggestion of some folds, get some tonal variation in there so that the  shape doesn't look completely flat.  And even on the spaceship back there, I could add some darks here and there.  And where the ground is that the figure is standing on, I could add a few darks here  and there like that, and I still have an overall abstract shape, a simple looking shape.  Even though I've added some slight tonal variations in there.  And then I could add a darker tone on these incoming spaceships, like this.  So these simple shapes make up a value pattern, or as it's also referred to, a matrix.  And I think you can see that it looks interesting, even though this is just a quick rough sketch  that I did.  So in my rough sketch here, I'm just focusing on abstract shapes.  I'm not adding all those additional components of a picture, such as lighting, and the texture  of the different materials, and bounce light, and color, and so forth.  I'm leaving all that out because I'm just focusing on abstract shapes.  And of course, abstract shapes don't always have to be dark shapes.  Here in Bernie's illustration, you can see the various abstract shapes that have different  tones.  Some lighter, like the sky, some darker, like you see here, this tree, and some even darker,  like that tree there.  And then a lighter abstract shape back here.  And of course, the shape of the light here is a very dark abstract shape.  So there are different degrees of values that can be abstract shapes.  Before I end this video, I just want to show you the homepage here for my online art academy.  And for those of you who might be thinking about wanting to take an art course, you might  want to check out my course, which is called the Complete Illustration Art Course.  And you make a one-time payment of only $99.95, and you get access to over 200 videos, which  amount to 245 hours of art instruction.  The course is broken up into four parts that you see here, teaching you everything you're  going to need to know to paint great pictures.  This course is a structured course, so you know where to begin, and where you're going  to end.  Here are just a few things you're going to learn.  You're going to learn about drawing, form, lighting, painting, portraits, design, composition,  perspective, figure drawing, anatomy, mood, drawing clothing, drawing folds, color, and  much, much more.  Now the course is also available on DVDs.  So if you're thinking about wanting to take an art course, why not come by my website,  artacademy.com, and check out the course.  And you'll see all of the various things you're going to be learning about.  Now in addition to my Complete Illustration Art Course, and the videos that I have at  my YouTube channel, I have additional videos that you can see at ArtStation.  And there's a link to those videos at ArtStation down below.  In addition to that, I have a mini-course on composition that is based on the textbook  that Austin Briggs, who was one of the guiding faculty members for the Famous Artist School,  put together for the Famous Artist School Art Course.  So if you want to learn what this great illustrator had to say about composition, as well as other  things about picture making, then you might want to check out this mini-course, and there's  a link down below to that course.  If you haven't subscribed to my YouTube channel yet, I would appreciate it if you would do  so.  That would be great.  I'm trying to get more subscribers, more viewers of my videos.  And since I'm not very well known, I would appreciate it also if you would tell everyone  you know about my videos to help get the word around so that other art students have the  opportunity to see my videos.  If you've been able to watch the entire video all the way to the end, that tells me that  you have an intense interest in wanting to learn what it is that goes into the making  of pictures.  You have what it takes.  You have, in other words, as they say, the right stuff.  Having that right stuff, or that art spirit within you, is what is going to drive you  on to become better and better and better.  There's really no limit to how good you can become.  And remember, make learning to draw your priority.  And now it's time to end this video.  Thanks for taking the time to watch this long video.  Goodbye, until next time. 