 Hello everyone today we're going to take a look at the five types of minimalist  design. So before we go into the five types of minimalist design let's first  take a look at what minimalism really is. So minimalism as a lifestyle is about  avoiding the unnecessary and favoring simplicity and in terms of aesthetics it  favors elegance. In its core is basically all about less is more in terms of  embracing the most of fewer things. The phrase less is more which is something  that we hear often in the design world was first applied by Ludwig Mies  van der Rohe who was one of the pioneers of the minimalist movement. If we take a  look at some of the buildings he designed a lot of the architecture  nowadays is in a way trying to mimic his style. Basically most of those typical  looking houses that we see on Pinterest or in Instagram are mimics of what he  way back in the 1950s. If you want to dig deeper into his philosophy I highly  recommend you take a look at more of his work right after you finish this video.  So the first type of minimalism is aesthetic minimalism which might be the  most popular form of minimalism that is today. I think we can all agree that  clutter isn't pretty therefore this type of minimalism strives a simple and clean  aesthetic. Clean lines, white walls and a few belongings have become such an  interior design trend in the last few years and it's hard to escape from the  popularity of it with all the exposure that it gets on social media. Decorating,  tidying and general living are a lot more complicated when you have a wide  range of ornaments or stuff in general in our living areas and instead  minimalist seems to always have one of these type of pictures in the wall and  usually a color scheme of white, beige and gray. The second type of minimalism  is eco-minimalism. Eco-minimalism in design seeks to lower the amount of  items so in the future there is less waste produced by that living area.  People that experience eco-minimalist design primarily enjoy the benefits on  the overall environmental impact that their lifestyle has but at the same time  unconsciously experience decluttering and the psychological aspect of it. This  design usually suggests to use natural materials which means that there would  be less plastic, glass and metal but instead more recycled textile and  fabrics. This for some people is a pleasant environment to have a rest in  because there is nothing odd or harmful to their health and achromatic colors  are the main kind of color scheme when designing eco-minimalism. That includes  colors from pure black to snowy white and walls are usually kept in pure white  or light gray. However this kind of minimalist approach can make your space  look very blank so to prevent your design from looking bleak it is  suggested to use bright color accents and most often those color accents are  green, yellow colors and usually the addition of brown which is actually a  very good add-on as well especially if it's natural wood which is recommended  to be used in this case. The third type is efficiency minimalism. Everyone has a  limit of energy and effort that they can put in one day and drowning in clutter  is just another outlet that can cause us to spend unnecessary amounts of energy  into tidying up. Whether it's due to the actual time you spend physically  cleaning and organizing or the emotional drain of your living space there's  no doubt that this can have a huge impact on your energy levels. This type  of design ensures that the ones that are surrounded by this type of environment  are going to spend time for more important matters in life. This is an  example of when architects should know the client's lifestyle to create the  best environment possible for them. One of the ways that architects could adapt  their design into a dynamic lifestyle that requires the highest amount of time  efficiency is to make the space as compact as possible and maybe even use  multifunctional furniture to save space and maybe sometimes time. When it comes  to clutter accessories are the ones that deal the most damage therefore we can  minimize them by only keeping items that serve your needs. So before we move on to  the next one make sure to click the like button and subscribe to the channel since  there will be a lot more videos in the future exploring the world of  architecture. Sometimes a branch of minimalism are what we call treasure  seekers who look for quality over quantity above all else. This might also  be known as luxurious minimalism. For some people quality over quantity is a  natural behavior so in this case the design might become minimalist without  intent. This type of design has only one goal which is to acquire a few of the  best pieces possible and not use items that can muddle their collection. Those  that practice this type of minimalism seek to only have the essentials but  overall better items in their possession. This type of minimalism might be  contradictory to the financial minimalists and the frugal lifestyle but  that is a whole nother topic. Type 5 is furniture free minimalism and this is  the one of the rarest of the five that we included in this video. This type of  design is usually destined for health gurus or people that like to live in the  extremes. While most minimalists share the common thread of having fewer  belongings, fitness focused minimalists take this a step further with a  furniture free movement. Furniture free living may not seem like the most  comfortable decor arrangement for a household but his followers suggest that  this is the most effective way to get in natural body movements throughout the  day. I definitely feel like this is a strange and extreme branch but I guess  it works for some people. Honestly sometimes minimalism can go to extremes  and it becomes just an unnecessary belief that dictates a lot of people  lives. I myself do believe that there are cases where less is more and decorations  and accessories can just look like too much clutter but minimalism is not for  everyone and not for every place. And I also think that there are negative sides  to minimalism and I will make a video regarding that in the future. So if you  enjoyed this video make sure to click the like button, subscribe to the channel  and leave any questions that you might have in the comment section below. See you  on the next one! 