 Hi, everyone. Welcome back to the DevOps Lab.  This week, I'm joined by Martina Heemstra to talk  about Delivery Plans 2.0 with Azure Boards.  It's amazing stuff. You don't want to miss this.  Hi, everyone.  Welcome back to the DevOps Lab.  I'm Damian Brady, and this week,  I am joined by Martina Heemstra.  Martina, thanks for joining us.  Happy to be here. Excited to be here.  Yeah, awesome. We are going to be talking about Azure Boards.  We usually talk a lot about CICD and  delivering stuff into production and all that kind of stuff.  But we don't as often talk about the planning stage,  and that's a super important part  of this whole DevOps story, correct?  It sure is. Planning is central to a lot of things,  and the great thing about Boards is it integrates  with everything in your DevOps pipelines and stuff.  Delivery Plans is a new feature that we've just GA'd,  which is a part of Boards and central to that planning.  We're really excited to show that part off today.  Yeah, that's right. Internally,  we use Azure Boards for everything.  Even planning this show is done on Azure Boards,  and it's not necessarily related  to a CICD pipeline or anything like that,  so it's super versatile.  Delivery Plans gives us  a few extra features that people have been asking for.  It sure does, yeah.  It gives you that timeline view of a plan.  There was three main scenarios that customers were asking for.  First one was that timeline view,  that roadmap view of a plan,  and then they also want to see what's the progress.  How far have I gone?  Am I going to hit the dates or not?  Delivery Plans gives that, and then of course,  the all-important dependency tracking.  You need to know what's going to be done first,  what's going to be done second,  where do I have problems in my plan?  Those were the three main scenarios  we were delivering for customers,  and of course, it has to work across teams and projects.  Yeah, okay. Absolutely. I think probably  the easiest way to have a look at what this can  deliver is maybe if you can show us what it looks like.  Oh, happy to do it.  And again, excited to announce we've made this,  so this is available for everyone now.  So I'm going to just start here with the plans.  So it's Delivery Plans as part of the board service here,  so you'll see it under the left nav.  It works very similar to the old plans,  except there's no extension you have to download anymore.  It's a native part of the product,  and you don't have to pay extra for it.  It's all part of the board service, which is great.  So you'll see this looks very similar.  You add a new plan here,  and the difference between the old one and new one  is you can now add up to 15 backlogs.  The old one, it was just 10,  and again, I just want to show here,  you can go across projects,  across teams,  and different backlogs.  Whatever you need to pull into that plan,  so you can really have that timeline view of your roadmap.  So I have one that's set up for us,  so this will make it much more interesting.  So what you're looking at here is an actual roadmap plan.  So this is called the condensed view,  so the cards on the plan  can either be expanded or condensed,  and I'll show you that in just a minute.  But the cool thing here is,  you can show whatever timeline you want.  You can freeze the bars here to get in.  You can zoom in  and out to whatever level you want it at.  So that's something  that really helps customers kind of get that view,  and what we're seeing here is a roadmap of epics,  and then you have multiple teams working on those epics.  So these are their feature backlogs,  and you see it in this all nice,  one condensed view of everything.  So we're looking at here,  epics needs to be done here in April,  another one's gonna be way far out,  but you can start seeing what it looks like,  and maybe reorganizing work as you need to go.  It seems like it's a great view for those project managers  and product managers who might be used to their Gantt charts  and a bit more of the,  almost like the waterfall planning stuff,  but this still ties into the backlogs  that the team's actually using,  whether they're using Scrum or Agile methods and things.  Correct?  That's right.  It doesn't matter which method you're using,  and you'll see a lot of portfolio managers,  and even Scrum Masters will use this,  but it's a lot of portfolio managers, project managers.  You're right, it has that kind of Gantt view of it,  but that's what we call that timeline view,  which customers have been wanting, so yeah.  So another thing you'll note on here  is these little red icons.  So this is what we call our dependency icon,  and I'm gonna show you in more detail how it all works,  but the cool thing here is,  again, within the delivery plans experience,  you can quickly see, ooh,  maybe I've got a problem here with a dependency,  and you'll see that right away,  so your eye's drawn to it, and you know what to look at,  and this'll go across anything  that has a dependency issue, it'll show up.  Oh, I should add, too,  so these delivery plans are based on iterations,  and the new feature is start date and target date,  so when we're doing that quarterly-level planning  or semester-level planning, whatever your cadence is,  a lot of customers have come back to us saying,  well, we just don't use iterations for EPICS,  we wanna use the start date and target date,  and so that's what you're able to use,  and so this backlog of EPICS here,  it's all based on the start date  and the end date of the EPIC,  and delivery plans works with both,  so what you'll see here is,  down here at the bottom,  we have a team that's working in a two-week sprint,  and they work off of iterations, see,  so, and they can continue working in it,  and then we have some teams that have a mix,  some work off of an iteration here,  here you've got one that's start date and end date,  and the reason I can tell that  is because they're working on a monthly iteration here, so.  That's really handy, it means you're not disrupting the team  just to fit in with your kind of rolled-up delivery plan,  you're just viewing what the team's  start dates, target dates are.  Exactly, teams can continue to be autonomous  in how they wanna work,  they choose what works best for them,  which is core at being an agile team, so.  Yeah, absolutely.  So you were gonna show me something more  about the dependencies as well.  Yeah, so one of the dependency track,  dependency tracking is one of the big features we have,  so I said the red icons here,  so if you click on this,  it brings up what we call our dependency panel,  and it's basically walking the tree  of your predecessor and successor links,  so you have to define those for all your work items,  but once you have those defined,  it walks that tree and lays out where you've got a problem,  anything with the red exclamation mark or red lettering  shows you, ooh, you got a problem here.  And here we see a problem between this feature and this epic  and we probably need to re-sequence some of the work.  So this is how you get the detail information on it,  now if you wanna see something really cool,  you can also visualize the lines,  so if you click on the bottom of the card,  you can now visualize those dependency lines,  how long have people been wanting that?  That's amazing, yeah.  And again, here it works across the teams and the backlogs  and you see there's a problem with it,  but it'll come with the red X here,  so you can see visually exactly where it is.  That's an amazing view actually,  yes, I've had a lot of people ask me  for that kind of thing before.  Yeah, this is one of those key scenarios  we delivered on for customers  and I'm sure there'll be more feedback that comes with it,  but this is a great way to start visualizing it,  and if you don't wanna see the lines,  you just click on the bottom of the card, so.  Pretty cool.  Yeah, and the fact that this is cross-project as well  is something that comes up a lot,  can I see the roll-up of all of the stuff  that I've got going on?  And those dependencies across projects  is pretty great too.  Yeah, well that was a key thing here,  it was customers were saying it's gotta be cross-team  because I've got all these teams  working on different epics and stuff and it's cross-team,  and gosh, we have, in our org, we have multiple projects,  so it has to work across that.  That's what our enterprises expect these days, so.  Yeah, absolutely.  It's key for us.  Yeah, so that's kind of dependency tracking.  The other key scenario we wanted to deliver on  was giving that progress view.  So if I go, again, you can toggle these,  so I'm gonna expand the cards here,  and here you can start seeing, well, what's the progress?  How far along am I?  And here, for this epic, you see it's child features  and then we have user stories linked to those features,  but you can see the progress roll-up.  Does it by percentage and then the item count?  And this works across, again, all of them.  Here, wherever you have links,  you can see it looks like we need to get busy  on this project.  There's a lot of zeros here.  I actually said that one of the things  that's really shining for me is the fact  that this is all just based on data that's there.  It's not trying to force a roll-up view  onto the developers or to the engineers doing the work.  It's just showing this information  in a really absorbable format, if that's even a word.  Yeah, no, you're absolutely right.  So customers don't have to do anything extra.  I mean, you pull together the plan, but to your point,  it's all based on the work item data you have  in Azure DevOps.  So when you're holding your program increment planning,  your planning session, defining what those work items are,  you're entering in all that information  and it's in Azure DevOps.  And then that just gets pulled into delivery plans  as you build your plan out.  So it's pretty cool.  Yeah, very.  Definitely something that the people  have been asking me for.  So what else should people know  before we provide some links and things like that?  Yeah, so we have the progress view here.  Wanted to show a couple of things with the settings.  We've added styling.  So customers who use our Kanban boards,  this is very similar.  We can, like, if I want to show architecture work here.  That's good.  Yes, we use that a lot with our Kanban boards.  You do, and you can pull it on.  Tags, whatever, you pick whatever works right for you.  And if this equals architecture,  we'll just save this really quick.  And again, you'll see if we go in condensed view here,  you can see the coloring.  So these are all the work items  that are associated with architecture type work  in this example.  So that's pretty handy there too.  And then the traditional filtering.  So this should seem pretty common to boards users.  We see this in our backlog and our Kanban board.  So we've pulled that over into delivery plans as well.  So the filtering works there too.  Definitely both things that I use a lot.  Definitely.  So yeah, I think that's pretty much the main features.  So, you know, I've shown you the three key scenarios here.  You've got that timeline view.  If you expand this, you can start seeing that  you see the progress view of work items  and then the dependency tracking.  You know, clicking on the bottom of that card  gives you those really helpful lines  and clicking on the dependency panel  gives you the detailed information you need.  That one in particular blows me away.  I think people-  The team works really hard on that.  We have an awesome engineering team.  I know enough HTML to know that that sounds  very, very hard too.  So great work from them.  Absolutely.  This is definitely going to be super useful  for a lot of teams and a lot of companies as well.  And you mentioned that this is GA  and it's not an addition.  It's not an extension or anything like that.  It's just part of the product?  That's right.  It's just a native part of the product now.  So you don't have to download an extension  from the marketplace.  That's the old plans was an extension,  but this new one, you don't have to.  I'll add too that if you have plans  that were built on that old extension,  they will work in this new one.  So the new delivery plans, which is native.  Oh, awesome.  Oh, look, thank you so much for showing us this.  This is amazing.  Just addition to the product  and definitely something that people have been wanting.  Yes, for a long time.  Yes, yeah.  I really appreciate you showing us  and great work to the team on this one as well.  And for everybody watching,  thanks so much for tuning in  and we'll see you at the next DevOps Lab.  Thank you. 