 Hi, today we're going to talk about riveting. Riveting is used to join two or more pieces  of metal together. Riveting is used in railings or furniture or decorative pieces or in this  case we're going to show you how to rivet a pair of tongs together. You just need a  few basic tools to do some riveting. One of them that you need is a rivet bucking tool.  The bucking tool supports the head of the rivet. Your bucking tool should fit flush  with the inside head of the rivet. That keeps the rivet head from deforming during the riveting  process. The other tool you'll need is a rivet heading tool. This tool dresses up the forged  end of the rivet. You also need a small ball-peen hammer for the riveting process. So the first  step you need to do is drill your pieces that you're going to be riveting. Drill the holes  the correct size. We're using a 5-16ths rivet so I drilled 5-16ths holes in my tongs. You don't  want to get your hole too big and sloppy. You want a nice fit. The next thing you do after that  is make sure your rivet is the right length. You need the correct amount of material sticking out  of your tongs. We're using a 5-16ths rivet. The general rule of thumb is one and a half times  the diameter of the rivet for the length of this material. So one and a half times 5-16ths is 15-30  seconds. We're making it just a smidge longer so we're at about a half of an inch. Okay then we're  going to need to heat this up to do the riveting process and you can heat this up locally with a  torch or in our case we're going to be using the coal forge. Now before I stick it in the fire,  I take my ball-peen hammer and I give this just a few hits. Mushroom this end a little bit that  keeps the rivet from popping out. So now I want to go stick this in the forge so we're  going to turn it over so we can heat the end of the rivet. So let's stick it in the forge.  While that's heating up let's go over the riveting process. First we want to make sure  our rivet is in the bucking tool and that our two pieces that we're riveting together are  tight together. We don't want to have any gaps here. And we'll take our ball-peen hammer using  the face of the hammer and we're going to use vertical blows. We're trying to upset this rivet  making it shorter and bigger in diameter. When we get it about halfway we're going to switch to the  ball-peen side of the hammer to the peen side and we're going to work around the outside edges.  Around this outside edge and we're trying to shape it like a rivet. And then when we get down  to about three-quarters of the way we're going to grab our heading tool and put that on there  and this will dress up the end of that rivet. 