 I want to give credit where credit is due.  This recipe for sweetened condensed milk is from my friend, Southern Bell Prepper.  I don't know about you, but I hate it when I go to make something in the house, I want  to make a recipe, and I run out of something.  Today, I was going to make fudge, and I ran out of the sweetened condensed milk, so I'm  going to show you what to do, how to make yourself sweetened condensed milk, that you  can make a bunch of it, put it in the refrigerator, and for a few cents, make about four of those  cans worth.  You know, I went to the store today, and we were looking, and it was $1.97 for a little  14 ounce can of sweetened condensed milk.  I'm going to show you how you can make four of those cans, keep it in the refrigerator  whenever you need it, so you can use it, and it won't cost you pennies on the dollar.  To make this, you're going to need a blender, you're going to need two cups of sugar, just  regular sugar, you're going to need a cup of water, and you're going to need two cups  of powdered milk.  Now if you use the cannery from the LDS milk, it's two cups.  If you use instant powdered milk, from say Kroger, or Jewel, or something like that,  you need to use four cups, so that's all there is to it, and I'll take you step by step.  We will need to put in a pan, two cups of sugar, two cups of sugar, and then we're going  to have to put in one cup of water, alright.  Now what we're going to do, whoops, we're going to stir this until it totally and completely  liquidates.  So what we want is for this to totally liquefy, there will be no grittiness to the sugar at  all by the time we're done, it'll just be one, just fluid, if you were to put your finger  in there, but you're not going to, because it'll be like syrup, yeah, that's the word  I'm looking for, syrup.  You see how it's getting, it's getting very clear, it's a little smoky still, and I want  this to boil up a little bit, not boil, just simmer, just slow simmer, it's looking good.  Now as you see it's getting to that stage, just like it does when we make jelly, we can't  roll it down, so what we're going to do is turn it off now, it's totally liquefied, that  is totally like a jelly, and that's what we want.  We are going to pour that into our blender, and this is very hot, anybody who cans and  makes jellies and jams knows how hot that is, but we're going to put all of that in  there, remember that was two cups of sugar to one cup of water, and now we're going to  put in two cups of milk powder, non-fat dry, two cups, if this is what you're using, otherwise  you've got to put four cups in of the instant dry powder, you have to use double.  This makes it very, very easy, even if it is a little, might be a little sloppy, put  that on, make sure it's blended real well, I'm going to put it on a low blend, I wouldn't  want to put that on so harsh that it will pour out, we all know what happens there.  And now every once in a while I'll go in there with my little spoon, I'll go in there, you  would not believe how easy this is, and now friends, you know, this is going to save you  a lot of money.  How many times, how many times I have bought this stuff, I can't even tell you myself,  I think it's safe to show you.  Alright, we're going to turn that off, take it off here, be very careful, it's still hot,  and then I'm going to pour it into a quart jar, friends, it is that simple.  I guess I made my smaller recipe today, this is about, what would I say, 16, 24, this recipe  that I made today is not going to be for the 4 cans, this is going to be for 2, but still,  what I paid to make this is about 50 cents, so you know, out of my preps, 50 cents, what  is that, I mean that's nothing.  So there you go, I put that on, when I want to use it, when I want to use it, I just measure  it out, it's 14 ounces, I measure it out and I have it, this is for 2 cans, this was $1.97  per can, times 2, that's about $4, I made this for 50 cents, you can too, save money,  it's smart, save money for other preps, it's smart, have a good day friends. 