 In this lesson we're going to go over the three most common judicial standards of review that are applied by the courts to determine the constitutionality of laws.  Of course we have rational basis, intermediate scrutiny, and strict scrutiny.  These are the standards of review that courts are going to most often apply to determine whether or not a law is constitutional.  So if we're looking at a law school fact pattern or a bar exam fact pattern in constitutional law, how does this play out?  How do we see this tested just from a big picture?  Well typically when we're seeing rational basis, intermediate scrutiny, strict scrutiny, when we're seeing these concepts really tested,  we're going to most often see it in the context of individual rights.  Think about your free speech analysis, your equal protection analysis, your due process analysis.  These are where we're really going to want to have a good understanding of what these standards of review are  and how to apply them to determine whether a law is constitutional or not.  So if we're thinking in that context of individual rights, our free speech analysis, our due process analysis, our equal protection analysis,  how does this play out on a fact pattern? How do we see this actually tested?  Well typically what we're going to have is first the government is going to perceive a problem.  Usually this is some kind of societal problem and we don't really care whether the government is right or wrong.  Whether it's a real problem or not a real problem, that's really not for us to decide.  All that we care is the government has in their opinion perceived some kind of problem.  And what's typically going to happen is the government of course is going to want to alleviate this problem.  So the government sees a problem, their objective is going to be, hey let's alleviate this problem.  So how do they alleviate it? Well in these fact patterns we're going to see the government basically pass a law  to try to achieve this objective of alleviating whatever the problem is that they saw.  So the government sees a problem, their objective is to alleviate the problem,  so they pass a law to accomplish this objective of alleviating whatever problem they have perceived.  Then what happens? Well we're going to need a plaintiff.  So somebody's going to be negatively affected by this law.  This law is going to get passed and the way it's applied to somebody in our fact pattern,  it's going to cause that person to sustain some kind of injury.  We're going to have a plaintiff who in some way is sustaining injury from whatever the law is.  It's going to negatively affect our plaintiff in some way.  So of course the plaintiff is going to want the law struck down.  If we're in constitutional law, they're probably going to challenge the constitutionality of the law  in order to try to get it struck down.  And they could do this on any grounds.  They could challenge it under the First Amendment.  They could say this is a violation of the Free Speech Clause of the First Amendment.  It should be struck down.  This is a violation of the Due Process Clause of the 14th Amendment.  It should be struck down.  It's a violation of the Equal Protection Clause of the 14th Amendment.  It should be struck down.  Whatever the challenge is, okay we'll deal with that.  But what happens at the end of the fact pattern?  Once we've seen kind of all of this.  The government has perceived the problem.  The government's objective is to alleviate the problem.  So to accomplish this objective, the government passes a law.  This law negatively affects a plaintiff.  So the plaintiff challenges the constitutionality of the law under some grounds.  And then we get to the bottom of the question.  And the call of the question is basically going to ask you to play judge.  It's going to say, hey, whoever's taking this constitutional law exam,  play judge and determine whether the law is constitutional or not.  And the good news is, you usually have a standard of review  that you can apply to that law to determine whether or not it is constitutional.  The Supreme Court has kind of come up with these standards of review,  these frameworks, these guiding principles that are used  to determine whether laws are constitutional or not.  So you will apply either rational basis, strict scrutiny,  or some form of intermediate scrutiny to determine whether or not the law is constitutional.  Some of you may be wondering, well how do we know which standard of review to apply?  How do we know when we're applying rational basis?  How do we know when we're applying strict scrutiny?  How do we know when we're applying some version of intermediate scrutiny?  And this is a very complicated question.  This is what we're going to spend the majority of our time  in all of our lessons on individual rights exploring.  If you think about our free speech analysis, our equal protection analysis,  our due process analysis, really the whole purpose of those frameworks,  those step-by-step analytical frameworks,  the conclusion we're trying to get at is what level of scrutiny are we actually applying?  So that's why we go through and have all of those discussions and lessons.  The whole purpose is to try to figure out what standard of review is the court going to apply  to determine whether or not the law is constitutional.  So the short answer to your question, if you're wondering,  how do I know which standard of review to apply,  it's kind of like, unfortunately or fortunately,  you have to watch all of our lessons on constitutional law,  all of our lessons on individual rights.  All those analytical frameworks we have,  it's basically the process you're going to have to follow  to determine which standard of review we're applying.  So that's not really what we're going to focus on in this lesson.  That'd be impossible.  It's like trying to cover 100 years of jurisprudence in constitutional law in one lesson.  What we're really going to focus on here is,  once we know what standard of review we're applying,  we've worked through all of our analytical frameworks  and we've determined we're applying strict scrutiny  to determine whether the law is constitutional or not.  In this lesson, what we're going to focus on is,  okay, well how do you do that?  How do you apply strict scrutiny to that law  to determine whether or not it's constitutional?  That's going to be the focus.  Also, another benefit of a lesson like this is,  we can also think about this video, this lesson,  as kind of just like a glossary of terms.  As we work through our lessons on individual rights,  many times you're going to hear me quickly in passing say things like,  and then so for these reasons,  the court applied rational basis to the law  and ultimately the law was upheld as constitutional.  If we've seen this lesson,  I don't have to explain rational basis every time I say it.  I don't have to explain strict scrutiny every time I say it.  After watching this, hopefully we all have a good understanding  of these concepts.  It's kind of like a glossary of terms lesson as well.  It'll also be basically like the final step  in all of our analyses.  When we're thinking about free speech,  equal protection, due process,  what we're going to cover in this lesson  is usually kind of the last thing we do  at the conclusion of our analysis.  It's a good glossary of terms video to have  so we just know what these concepts mean  and it's also going to be helpful at the end of our analyses.  For those of you that are like me  and you just want a big picture kind of idea  of when we apply these standards of review,  of course the only way that we know  when we're applying which standard of review  is to watch all of our lessons on constitutional law  and to understand all of those analytical frameworks.  But if you're just looking for a big picture idea,  one thing to keep in mind is typically  as we move this way on the board,  basically we're seeing an increase  in the constitutional value  of whatever the area of law is  that's being regulated by the government.  If the government is regulating in an area  that has a lot of constitutional value,  the types of protections that are deeply rooted  in our nation's history and tradition,  the more we're kind of in these areas  that the Supreme Court has assigned  a lot of constitutional value.  These are the things that the United States  holds near and dear to its heart.  Those types of constitutional protections,  the more likely it is that the court  is going to be inclined to apply  strict scrutiny to that law.  A higher level of scrutiny because it's like,  hey, this is a really important thing  that the government is coming in and restricting.  If the government's coming in and they're regulating  and they're restricting rights in some area,  and those rights, those protections,  have a lot of constitutional value,  the court's like, we've got to put  the microscope on this law.  We've got to really apply a heavy,  strict level of scrutiny.  It's more likely we're going to be  on this side of the board.  Basically, as the areas the government  is regulating in become higher in their value  from a constitutional perspective.  That's basically just determined  by the Supreme Court.  Of course, the opposite is true.  The less value that is assigned  by the Supreme Court,  like less constitutional value  assigned by the Supreme Court,  the more likely it is we come this way  on the board and we apply something  like rational basis, where the Supreme Court  is saying something like,  the constitutional value is a lot lower here  in this area that the government  is regulating in.  Basically, there's less at stake,  so we can give a little bit of deference  to the government here,  because essentially there's less  constitutional value at stake.  Okay, that's the big picture idea  of kind of how the Supreme Court  is determining what level of scrutiny  or what standard of review to apply  to determine the constitutionality of a law,  but that's just a big picture concept.  To really know exactly what standard  of review we're applying,  we have to go through all the step-by-step  analytical frameworks that are laid out  in all of our constitutional law lessons, okay?  But that's enough of that.  Let's just get into these things.  Let's talk about how we actually apply  these two laws to determine  whether or not they're constitutional.  The best way to do this is just with examples.  So what we can do here is just take some laws,  take some common kind of hypotheticals,  some common structures,  some common laws,  and try to see what would happen  if we apply each of these levels  of scrutiny to the law,  basically what happens.  And I think that will kind of illustrate best  how each of these work.  Okay, so let's just take a basic example.  And we kind of talked about  what the framework is of these fact patterns,  so we'll stick to that,  because that's what you're probably going to see.  So let's start with  a middle-of-the-road kind of protection  that would be somewhere  in intermediate scrutiny's territory,  and then let's apply each level,  each standard of review,  to see how it plays out.  So imagine the following fact pattern.  Remember, what's the first thing that happens?  Government perceives a problem.  So let's say the government perceives a problem.  The government is looking out at society,  and they say,  we think too many children  are using tobacco products.  Okay, this is a perceived problem by the government.  Let's say the government believes  that tobacco is very harmful to children.  It can cause cancer.  It can cause heart disease.  It can cause all kinds of problems in children.  So basically, the government sees  that children are using tobacco  at an alarmingly high rate.  This is the problem that is perceived by the government.  So the government is going to have the objective  to alleviate this problem.  So let's say the government wants to reduce,  basically, consumption of tobacco by children  to prevent the harms that tobacco cause to children.  So that's their objective.  So they're going to pass a law  to try to achieve this objective.  So we need a law that implicates constitutional rights.  Let's pick the First Amendment.  And this, by the way, is based on a real case.  All of these examples,  I will base on real Supreme Court decisions,  but I'm going to kind of change  a little bit of the facts here and there.  So these are hypotheticals,  but they're based on real cases.  So let's say that the government's objective  is to reduce the consumption  of tobacco products by children.  So they pass a law.  That's their objective.  The law that they pass is targeting tobacco advertising.  Let's say the government says,  hey, look, if we can get less tobacco advertisements  around children,  that should reduce the demand  that children have for tobacco.  It should decrease the consumption  of tobacco being used by children.  And ultimately, that's going to prevent  all of these harms that tobacco causes  from occurring in these children.  So they develop a regulatory scheme.  They pass a law that basically says  tobacco advertisements are not permitted  within 1,000 feet of elementary schools,  public parks, public playgrounds,  high schools, middle schools,  anywhere where children,  people under the age of 18  are likely to congregate.  And then there's like a list,  say within 1,000 feet of public parks,  public playgrounds,  public elementary schools,  public middle schools.  Within 1,000 feet of any of these areas,  there is no advertising  of tobacco products allowed  in any form.  Okay, so the government passes this law.  They've perceived a problem.  Children are being affected by,  children are being negatively affected  by using tobacco products.  It's causing bodily harm  and maybe even death.  Okay, so their objective is to prevent this.  They're trying to alleviate the problem.  To accomplish this objective,  they pass a law that targets  tobacco advertising  that could be placed near children  in places where children  are likely to congregate.  Okay, so what happens next  in these fact patterns?  Well, we know we need a plaintiff.  Someone has to be harmed  in some way by this law.  So who would be kind of someone  who would be harmed by a restriction  on tobacco advertising?  Well, of course, the tobacco companies, right?  I imagine the tobacco companies  would not be thrilled  with this kind of regulation.  So imagine that a tobacco company,  you know, sues.  The tobacco company becomes our plaintiff.  It doesn't matter what tobacco company.  A tobacco company, though,  comes along and says,  hey, look, this is a violation  of our freedom of speech  under the First Amendment.  This is in violation  of the free speech clause  of the First Amendment.  We're challenging the constitutionality  of your law.  You know, we have the right  to express our ideas, especially,  I mean, think about it.  This is truthful advertising  of lawful activity.  We absolutely have the right  to express our ideas on tobacco.  This is freedom of expression  under the First Amendment.  It's being restricted by the government.  So they challenge the law  under the First Amendment.  Okay, then we would get to the bottom  of the fact pattern,  and it's going to ask you,  determine whether or not  the law is constitutional.  Explain.  Remember, the bottom of the fact pattern  is going to ask you to play judge,  and it's going to say,  determine whether or not  this law is constitutional.  How do you do this?  Well, you're going to have to apply  a standard of review.  You know, you don't just, like,  make stuff up.  We have these, you know,  established standards of review  that courts use to determine  whether or not a law is constitutional.  So you'll go through  all the analytical frameworks.  Again, you'll have to watch our,  you know, entire series on free speech.  You'll have to go through  that entire step-by-step process.  Remember, whether the law is  within the scope of the First Amendment.  Then you'll have to think about  the state action requirement.  Then you'll have to think about  overbreath, vagueness doctrines,  and other threshold speech issues.  Then you'll have to determine  whether the law is content neutral  or content-based.  Here, it's likely that the law  is content-based,  and then once you determine  that it's content-based,  you'll have to think about,  well, is this a protected category,  unprotected category of speech?  You'll go through this  long analytical framework,  and in that case,  you'll actually arrive at the conclusion  if we go through the analysis correctly  that that falls under basically  the unprotected speech category  of commercial speech.  We have this whole kind of  step-by-step analysis  with commercial speech.  There's a really seminal case there,  Central Hudson Gas.  That's the standard of review  that you'll apply.  It ends up being a modified version  of intermediate scrutiny,  but let's ignore that  because really what we're focusing on  in this lesson  is just applying all of these  standards of review.  How do each of these work?  We know in that case,  the court would actually apply  a modified version of  intermediate scrutiny  to determine whether that restriction  on tobacco advertising  is in violation of the First Amendment.  Here, we can just say,  look, this is a hypothetical.  Let's apply rational basis,  intermediate scrutiny,  and strict scrutiny to that law  to see what would happen  at each level.  How would the result change  when we're applying rational basis,  intermediate scrutiny,  and strict scrutiny?  Let's say in this case  that the court was applying  rational basis to determine  whether this law was constitutional  or not,  whether this restriction  on tobacco advertising  is constitutional or not.  What we see here,  under rational basis,  the challenger must prove  that the law serves  no legitimate government interest  or the law is not  rationally related to achieving  a legitimate government interest.  The commonality we're going to see  between all of these  standards of review  is the two features  of each one  kind of follow a similar pattern.  The first feature  of each standard of review  focuses on  how important  the government interest is  behind passing the law.  Remember, we have to know  what the objective is  the government is trying to achieve  by passing the law.  Remember, we said the way  that these fact patterns play out,  it's going to be, number one,  the government perceives a problem.  The government's objective  is to alleviate the problem  and they do this  by passing a law.  We want to know  what is the objective  that the government  is trying to achieve  by passing the law.  When we're thinking about  this first feature  in each of these  standards of review,  what we're really asking is,  on a spectrum,  how important  is this objective?  How important  is this objective  that the government  is trying to achieve  by passing the law?  We kind of see  that we have  three baseline points.  We have the idea  of a legitimate  government interest.  As we move down  the spectrum,  we have the idea  of an important  government interest.  As we move all the way  down to the end  of our spectrum,  we have a compelling  government interest.  Under rational basis,  all that's required  for the law  to be upheld  is that the interest  is legitimate.  This is the lowest end  of our spectrum.  When we're thinking about  this spectrum,  it's basically  how important  is the objective  that the government  is trying to achieve  by passing this law?  If we have to rank that,  how important is it?  All that's required  under rational basis  is that the law  is legitimate.  What is the government's  objective here?  What is the government  trying to achieve  by passing this law  in our fact pattern?  They're trying  to prevent children  from serious bodily  harm and death.  It's all about  preventing cancer  and heart disease  in children.  Would we say  that this is a  legitimate government  interest?  Of course.  There's no doubt.  Protecting children  from serious bodily harm  or death  is a legitimate  government interest.  Is that an important  government interest?  Even though we're not  applying intermediate  scrutiny,  just think about it,  is protecting children  from harm or death  an important  government interest?  Probably, right?  In fact,  I would say  in most cases,  that's going to be  a compelling  government interest.  Anytime we see  the government  is protecting children  from death  or serious bodily harm,  this is one of our  highest levels of interest  the government could have.  Anytime the government  is really protecting  the health,  safety  of large segments  of the population,  that's probably  a compelling  government interest,  which means  it's important,  which means  it's legitimate.  In fact,  what we see is  most government  interests  are legitimate.  Even if it's trivial.  Say the government  is trying to increase  tax revenue  0.3%.  Right?  Whatever.  Something kind of trivial.  Is that a legitimate  government interest?  Yeah, that's legitimate.  Is it important  or is it compelling?  Probably not.  A slight increase  in tax revenue,  again, it depends  on the facts.  We'd have to see everything.  But just off the cuff,  a small increase  in tax revenue,  probably not  a compelling  government interest.  Maybe could be important  depending on the facts,  but probably not  an important  government interest.  It's more trivial.  But it's definitely  a legitimate  government interest.  It's hard  for a government interest,  for the government  to have an objective  that's actually  not legitimate.  One of the  best examples of this,  which you'll see cited,  and there's not a whole lot  of case law out there  that exists  that demonstrates  what an illegitimate  government interest  actually is.  There's only a small  handful of times  where the Supreme Court  has actually said,  hey, this interest  isn't even legitimate.  One of the most  seminal cases  on this would be  basically  United States  Department of Agriculture  v. Moreno.  In that case,  what you had was  basically,  for lack of a better  way of saying it,  the government  had the objective  to prevent  hippie communes  from receiving  food stamp benefits  from the government.  Basically, the government  passes this law  that says, hey,  if people  that aren't  direct relatives  live in the same household,  they can't get  government food stamps.  They laid out  all of these exceptions  that covered a lot of things,  but it didn't cover  communes where  quote-unquote  hippies lived.  Of course, hippies  referring to,  this case is from the 70s,  members of the  counterculture  that disagree  with societal norms  and are forming  their own communities  in the 70s.  This kind of  political group  is being referred to  as the government  as hippies  in the 70s.  In that case,  the government says,  or in that case,  it goes up,  the Supreme Court says  that that's not  a legitimate  government interest.  The government does not  have a legitimate  interest  in preventing  a political group  that they disagree with  from getting  food stamps.  That's not  legitimate.  That's not a legitimate  government interest.  You have to be  pretty low  on the spectrum.  The government  really has to be  reaching  to get an actual,  to have an objective  that is actually  not legitimate.  Most things,  even if it's trivial,  are going to be  considered legitimate.  It's also  important to recognize  when we're applying  rational basis,  the burden here  is on the challenger,  not the government.  The person who is  challenging  the constitutionality  of the law  is going to have to  bring forth the evidence.  It's going to have to say,  look,  this,  the challenger,  must prove that the law  serves no  legitimate government interest.  So if the court  looks at it,  if basically the court  can conceive  any way  that the government  could have had  a legitimate interest here,  they're supposed to say,  okay,  that is legitimate.  Even if the government  doesn't bring  evidence  that they had  a legitimate  government interest,  if it's conceivable,  okay,  because the challenger  has the burden  to prove that the law  serves no  legitimate government interest.  Basically,  the challenger has to say,  here's all the evidence  that shows why  the government  could not have  possibly had,  there's no conceivable way  the government  could have had  a legitimate  government interest.  This is a very,  very difficult thing  for the challenger  to prove,  and in fact,  it's only happened,  you know,  a couple of times,  okay,  and one of the biggest  examples there would be  United States Department  of Agriculture  v. Moreno.  Okay,  so that's our first feature,  though,  of each of these levels  of scrutiny.  It's all about  basically ranking  on our importance  spectrum,  you know,  how important  is the objective  that the government  is trying to achieve  by passing the law,  okay,  and we can kind of  visualize it  with this spectrum.  The next question  that we're going to see  in all of these  standards of review,  the second feature  we're going to see  is all about  the connection  between the government  interest  and the law itself.  You know,  if we're thinking about  what is the objective  the government  is trying to achieve  by passing the law,  and our first question  is about kind of  determining  how important  that objective is,  the next question is,  what is the causal  connection  between the objective  and the law itself?  Okay,  so the first  feature  that we're going  to see  is the causal  connection  between the objective  and the law itself.  Can we see  a relationship,  you know,  between the law  and the objective  the government  is trying to achieve  by passing the law?  We need to see  that relationship,  that link,  and basically,  how perfectly  that relationship  fits together.  Basically,  what is required  for that connection  to be sufficient  changes drastically  as we move  from rational basis  to intermediate scrutiny  to strict scrutiny.  Strict scrutiny,  we're going to see  it basically  has to be a perfect fit.  Rational basis,  we see that the challenger  has to prove  that the law  is not  rationally related  to achieving  a legitimate  government interest.  If we visualize this,  kind of  these squares,  these rectangles  we have drawn  on the board,  imagine  that these rectangles  are like cakes,  like flat  sheet cakes,  and what we have  in situations  like this  where the government  is restricting.  Think about  any time  that the government  is actually  restricting rights,  they're taking away  rights,  or they're regulating  or restricting rights  in some way.  Like in this case,  they're actually  restricting  how people  can express  their ideas  when they're saying  you can't advertise  tobacco products  in these spaces,  in these ways.  They're kind of  taking away rights.  They're restricting  First Amendment  protections.  We should literally  visualize that  as our entire cake,  this rectangle  right here,  this entire cake  represents  freedom of speech,  and the government  is coming in  and they're carving out  a section of that cake.  They're saying,  look,  you can't  speak freely  in this little thing  that we are  carving out  from Freedom of Speech  First Amendment.  With this  tobacco  advertising  regulation,  they're cutting out  a piece of that cake.  So the dotted lines  kind of represent  the government's law  in these.  So the rectangle  all the way around,  the bordering rectangle  here  represents  the entire cake,  the entire  First Amendment,  basically.  And of course,  this isn't drawn to scale.  Like obviously,  in this example,  this cake  would be like  the size of the board  and the piece  they're cutting out  is like relatively small.  But just for our purposes,  this isn't drawn to scale,  but just to like  see what it looks like.  They're carving out  a piece  of that protection.  Okay?  And so  when they're doing this  under rational basis,  the question is just  that there's a rational  relationship  between  the government's  target objective,  which is basically  the green lines,  and basically  what they've cut out.  And here,  the piece that they've cut out,  right,  it's way bigger  than it probably  has to be.  When we think about  how much of free speech  they're cutting out,  they're carving out  a really big piece.  But in that piece,  they are probably  achieving their objective here.  When we think about  what the objective is,  they're trying to reduce  the demand  basically from children  for tobacco products.  If they go  and they  reduce the amount  of advertising  that children see,  okay,  if less children  are seeing advertisements  for tobacco,  that's going to  lower the demand  that children have  for tobacco.  Less kids use  tobacco products.  Less kids are going  to have the  bodily harm  and other damages  that the government  is trying to prevent.  So we can clearly see  the relationship  behind  the rational relationship  behind this law,  basically restricting  the way tobacco companies  can advertise  in places where  children congregate  to reducing  basically harm  caused by tobacco  to children.  We can see that relationship.  Now if we visualize it though,  it's not like  a perfect relationship.  The government  is targeting  way more  than they have to here  to achieve that objective.  Think about it.  Imagine that we took out a map  and we pinned  all of these locations.  Take like New York City,  a really populated  congested city.  And say we went  and we on the map  we put a pin in  everywhere there's  a public park,  everywhere there's  a public playground,  everywhere there's  a school,  an elementary school,  a middle school.  Because remember  the regulation  the government passed  in this case  was basically  no tobacco  advertising  within a thousand feet  of public elementary schools,  public middle schools,  public parks,  public playgrounds.  So imagine we looked  at a map  and we put those pins in  at each of those locations.  And then we drew  a thousand feet  diameter circles  around each  of those locations.  And then we looked  at the map.  What it would probably  turn out  if we did that  is almost the entire city  would be circled.  Which means effectively  by passing this regulation  there can be  no tobacco advertising  in the entire city  in any format.  People basically  can't verbally  advertise tobacco.  So people can't even  really talk about  tobacco products.  There can't be  any signage,  any radio,  any advertisements  of any kind  of tobacco  in an entire city.  So think about that.  That means they are  carving out  a huge piece  of the First Amendment pie.  If we think about  the First Amendment cake here  they are cutting out  a massive piece.  Way more than they need to  to achieve their objective  of just preventing children  from using tobacco products.  So we would say  that's probably  a substantially  over-inclusive law.  When we're thinking about  this second element  that's what this label is.  It's substantially  over-inclusive.  And that's what  the red represents.  The red kind of represents  the burden,  the additional burden,  the extra burden  they're placing  on free speech  when they pass this law.  They're carving out  way more  than they need to.  But the good news  for the government here  is if we're applying  rational basis  that's kind of okay.  It doesn't have to be  a narrowly tailored law.  It doesn't have to be  a perfect fit.  They are allowed  to carve out more  than they need to  if we're applying  rational basis.  Thank you so much  for watching  this video preview  of our Legal Education  Accelerator Program  or LEAP for short.  If you would like  to see the conclusion  of this video  and gain full access  to our entire  1L and 2L video library,  integrated outlines,  streamable audio versions,  additional practice exams  with explanations,  and much more,  we invite you  to head over  to our website  and join the thousands  of law students  who have already enrolled  to get started  with your no-risk  free trial today.  Simply click the link  in the description box below  or visit www.studacata.com  forward slash LEAP.  Hi everyone.  My name is Serena  and I'm currently  a law student  at South Texas  College of Law, Houston.  Hi everybody.  My name is Shiva  and I'm currently  a law student  at Southwestern.  Hi everyone.  My name is Michelle  and I am a first year student  at South Texas  College of Law, Houston.  I used the  Studacata study video series  last semester  to help me prepare  mostly for contracts  and I actually made  an A plus N contract  last semester  which I greatly dedicate  to the Studacata videos.  By using Studacata  to help me prepare  for my final exam,  I was able to score  the highest grade  out of my class  on the final  and even have my essay  distributed as the  model answer.  Not to mention  I had done quite poorly  on the midterm  and was struggling  throughout the whole course  of the semester  understanding the material  and keeping up with lectures.  Because of the  Studacata video lectures,  I was able to go  into my exams  with a feeling of confidence.  I didn't have to worry  about what the rules of law were  or how I was going  to organize my answer  to an essay question.  I would absolutely recommend  the Studacata series  and their online course materials  to anyone.  I think that they  are not like  professor lectures  that you might find online  or other outside study materials  that you may encounter.  I think that the Studacata videos  really focus on  not only ensuring  that you understand  the material  that you're going to encounter  on your final,  but they also help you  to understand  kind of the best method  for test-taking.  And they really break down  how to approach  each problem  and the best ways  to tackle certain methods  on testing.  And I think that's  really important  and I think it's really special.  I don't see that  anywhere else  in any of the other  online resources  that I've found.  So, I would certainly  recommend Studacata  to anyone  who is studying  in law school right now.  Good luck on your studying  and you're going to do great.  I would definitely  recommend Studacata  to anybody  watching this video.  Give it a chance  Give it a chance  I'm sure  I'm positive  that you will love it  that you will get  a lot out of it  and that you will be happy  that you gave it a chance.  I definitely am.  I know I will be using  Studacata in the future.  And I cannot thank  Studacata enough  for getting me through  my first semester  of law school.  I will definitely,  definitely continue  to watch the Studacata  video lectures  throughout my law school career  and I highly recommend  that any future  or current law student  do the same. 