 I have a business account and can't use trending music.  Did you know about that?  360?  Yes. And you think about, you can't use it.  You can't use the trending music  if you have a business account and you think about this,  like say you have, you know,  like someone takes our voice off of this stream  and uses it as a trending sound on TikTok.  So if it's just users, other creators, you know, sure.  Okay. But like say AT&T comes in and uses our sounds  and we did not get paid for it.  Now it's a problem.  So that's why the business account.  Cause they're going to make money off of it.  And that's, we're not going to see a piece.  So, and I have a creator account.  So I don't see that.  I wouldn't know it.  And I totally get it.  And creators can actually pull the stuff  because that's part of the industry.  But what happens when creators start  to take other creators stuff and not citing that,  hey, this is where, well, you see who the person is.  So it's a better way of doing it.  Cause what happens in the past,  they would just take it and not get any credit  to a creator.  So now with the remixing,  if I'm pointing over my shoulder and there she is,  I'm saying there she is doing it,  even though I'm in there,  everybody will get something from that.  Right. And that gets into like creator ethics  and just you as a person, like knowing what's right,  because it's all, it's being a content creator,  being an influencer is still a new industry.  You know, like it's been around for a couple of years.  Like there's people who've like really,  really succeeded with it,  but it is still new and the FTC guidelines  are always changing.  And it's your responsibility to protect yourself.  So if you're ever doing like a sponsored video,  so even if you have access to the trending songs,  if it's a sponsored video, I will not touch trending music.  I will not touch pop top 40.  I will just use stuff that I know for sure  is royalty free because I got to protect myself.  And then it protects, you know,  the brand that you're working with.  And I've definitely had brands who are like,  well, you need to use a trending song.  And I was like, I'll give it to you blank.  And that's on you because like,  I have to cover myself because like lawsuits are happening.  Like you will see it.  It is happening out there where people are getting in trouble  and then you are liable as a creator.  If like that was your deliverable.  So, you know, my wife is a musician, jazz flutist,  and knowing the creator side for people with music,  it is a really big deal right now  because they're trying to find new ways to get monetized.  And one of the new ways to get monetized, I'm sorry.  I mean, I don't care if it's 15 seconds, a minute or what,  I think something has to go back to that creator.  And that may be another way  that they could actually bring some revenue back.  I don't know how, but it should be.  Like, I don't know what 15 seconds of a song  or even if the social media platforms have a loophole  to where if it's so many seconds of a song,  they don't have to pay but so much.  But you know, they're having a tough time with streaming  because people on TikTok listening all day long.  I mean, what do you think even with Beyonce  when her song hit,  what do you think people listen to her song at?  They listen to it on Instagram and TikTok  from everybody doing videos about it.  Yeah, and so there's like the double-edged sword of that  where if you, for exposure, like it's really great  because like you can get ears on your music  like just exponentially, right?  So if you're like established, right?  Like if you're like Beyonce and like,  people are going to hear it  and now they're like, I got to download the album.  I got to get the t-shirt.  I got to, you know, go to the concert  because like, I can't get this song out of my head, right?  So that's like the new radio play where, you know,  if you're a newer artist, right?  It is good that you get seen on it,  but that's where it's like when creators are using it,  like, I'm like, okay, that's fine.  Like that would be fine.  Like if a creator had my, like use my voice  for a trending sound or whatever, great, cool, you know?  But when it's like being used in commercials,  being used by brands.  And even when like, I've had sometimes  like people download my video and post it on their own page  and like that I'm not okay with.  Do edit, sure.  But like, don't download it and upload it as your own  because I put work into that  and I wouldn't do that to somebody else.  Right.  So that's part of the ethics that we need to be aware of.  Don't just download it and upload it  and not give credit or, I mean, why not?  We have ways to do edit now. 