 Cognitive Behavior Therapy Vicious  Cycles by Getselfhelp.co.uk  Cognitive Behavior Therapy or CBT  looks at the links between thoughts,  feelings and behaviors. How you think  about yourself, the world and other  people, which is generally a result of  earlier experiences in life. CBT tends to  focus on the here and now and although  therapy helps to make sense of the past  and understand the way it has shaped your  life, and that's really important to do,  CBT mainly looks at ways to improve your  current situation and future.  So CBT says there is a trigger or a  situation that we think about, so we have  thoughts in reaction to the trigger or  situation, and as a result of those  thoughts we feel an emotion and we have  some physical sensations, and as a result  of those thoughts and feelings we behave,  we react in a certain way.  We tend to think that in response to an  event we feel emotion or behave in a  certain way. Epictetus, a Greek-born  Roman slave in the first century, said  men are disturbed not by things but by  the view they take of them. So he's  saying, and CBT agrees, that it's not the  event which causes our emotion and  behavioural response, but it's the meaning  or the thoughts about the event which  causes us to feel and behave in a  certain way. For example, in the middle of  the night you might hear a loud crash, so  if you think, oh gosh there's an intruder,  they might come and hurt me, you're going  to feel frightened. If you think, my son's  drunk again, then you might feel angry or  annoyed. Or if you think, the cat's knocked  over that biscuit tin again, then that  might feel OK, or perhaps mildly annoyed.  And if you think, oh gosh my clumsy  daughter is home safe, then you're going to  feel relieved. It's the same event, same  situation, but the different meanings  that we give it lead to different  emotions. So we can make sense of our  emotions using vicious cycle diagrams,  looking at the thoughts, feelings and  behaviours and trying to make changes.  The vicious cycle of anxiety.  There is a trigger, whatever that trigger  is. It might be a thought, it might be a  feeling, it might be an external event.  With anxiety the thoughts are generally  something bad is going to happen and I'm  not going to be able to cope. It's very  future focused and it's catastrophic. We  tend to think the worst possible thing  is going to happen, and if anybody has  those thoughts and believes those  thoughts, we're going to feel anxious,  terrified, panic-stricken. You're going to  get the body's alarm system is going to  be activated and we're going to feel  that adrenaline response, tense, heart  racing, breathing fast, shaky, hot, sweaty  and all those things. Really unpleasant  feelings which seem to confirm, oh god  something bad really is happening. We  want to get rid of these feelings, we  want to stop these feelings, so we tend  to do these things. We avoid or escape.  We might avoid situations where we're  likely to feel anxious, or if we find  ourselves in a situation where we  suddenly feel anxious, we're going to  want to escape in order to stop the  thoughts, stop the feelings. We might  not go out, we might avoid going to the  party at the weekend, we might make  excuses, we might try to leave early, or  we use what we call safety behaviors,  things that help us cope in that  situation. So if I did go to the party I  might hide away in the corner and drink  more for instance. And if I keep doing  these things, if I keep avoiding those  situations, that's going to reinforce the  negative thoughts that I have. So we're  going to stay in that anxious cycle and  we're going to get caught up, and that's  what we mean by a vicious cycle. It seems  like we can't escape from it, but in CBT  we can learn to escape and break that  cycle. Depression, vicious cycle of  depression or sadness. Now Eeyore is a  very good example. He's slow, he thinks  very negatively, gloomy outlook, no energy,  doesn't want to do anything. Depression  is a lot like that. Depression might creep  on us over a long time. It might also be  some trigger or event or thought that  dips our mood. Our thoughts tend to be  very negative, very gloomy, it's like  wearing really dark gloomy specs, very  self-critical. We tend to be really down  on ourselves and we think there's no  point, quite helpless about the future, no  one likes me. Anybody that thinks  these thoughts and believes these  thoughts are going to feel sad and  depressed. Energy will drop, we'll feel  tired, no motivation, not interested in  doing anything and just slow down. And if  you're thinking and feeling that way,  then we're going to withdraw and  isolate ourselves. We're going to stay home,  not do much, we're going to cut ourselves  off from other people, not go out and  just drop all the fun stuff. And if we  stay home and cut ourselves off from  other people, how does that affect the  way we think? How does that affect the way  we feel? So again we get caught up in  this downward spiral that we feel we  can't escape from, we can't break out  from.  The vicious cycle of anger. In response  to a trigger, thoughts with anger tend to  be, it's unfair, this isn't right, there  is some injustice, I must do something  about it, I must right this wrong. So we  feel angry, we get that same adrenaline  response that we do when we're anxious,  but this time it's not about running  away and avoiding, it's about attacking,  giving us the resources that we need to  right this wrong. We get this urge to hit  out, to make a noise, to shout, we make  ourselves look bigger, or it might be  quite low-key and just sarcastic and  that sort of thing. And if we keep  responding in that same way, then nothing  is going to change. The vicious cycle of  stress. All these emotions are normal,  they are normal responses to thoughts.  Everybody feels anxious and they have a  purpose, you know, it's good to feel  anxious sometimes, it gets us away from  danger. The trouble is, sometimes our mind  tricks us into thinking there is danger  when there really is none. The vicious cycle  of stress, everybody gets stressed at  times. Stress is about too many demands  being made on us and we don't have the  resources to cope. So in response to a  trigger, we tend to think there's too  much to do, there's not enough time, it's  out of control, I can't cope. So we feel  very stressed, we get that drip feed of  adrenaline and cortisol, the stress  hormone, which results in these horrible  physical feelings all the time. Tense  headaches, forgetful and all that sort of  thing. So what do we do?  Well, if we haven't got enough time then we  might try and make more time at work in  order to try and fit in everything we've  got to do. Or we might think, I can't  cope with going to work at all and just  stay home. You might avoid and put things  off, lots of different things. You might  sleep more, sleep less, drink more, smoke  more, shout, argue, less family or fun  time. It affects us in all different ways.  And if we don't make any changes in the  way we think and in the way we behave,  then nothing is going to change.  We need to understand our vicious cycle to  help us to make positive changes. We need  to break the cycle. We can break the  cycle by thinking differently, by  changing the way we think, and doing  differently, changing the way we behave.  So if we go back to the vicious cycle of  anxiety, we can break this cycle by  thinking differently, and that will  include learning to challenge our  thoughts, not believing our thoughts,  learning not to pay attention to our  thoughts, and learning skills that will  help us do those things. That is going to  have an impact on the way you feel.  If we also change our behaviors, so  instead of avoiding or escaping, we make  a plan to gradually do those things and  to stick with them rather than escape.  We need to start small and build up.  Start with little things, make a plan, and  learn and use coping skills to help you  cope with those situations. And every  time you go into that anxiety provoking  situation, the first time you're going to be  very anxious, the second time you're not  going to be quite so anxious, because  you're starting to learn that actually  it wasn't so bad as what I thought it  would be. And the next time you go, again  you won't be quite so anxious, and each  time the anxiety will reduce and it will  go away quicker too. So if we think  differently and do differently, then  you're going to feel very differently.  You're going to be feeling much less  anxious and more confident in yourself.  And for depression, with depression we  start to make those changes in the  behaviors, because that's where the  evidence says works most quickly, most  effectively. We change what we do, so  rather than withdraw and isolate  ourselves, we need to start to go out  more. Do more of the activities I enjoy or  used to enjoy. Connect with other people.  So rather than cutting ourselves off,  start to make those connections again,  spending time with other people. Gentle  exercise. Exercise is an amazing mood  enhancer. Now it all feels like a big ask  at the beginning, but start with the  five-minute rule. Go for a walk five  minutes. Commit to that. After five  minutes you can ask yourself, is this  helping? How am I feeling?  Don't want to carry on? Or actually is  that enough for today? And you can learn  coping skills that will help you do  those things. And then you can also learn  to challenge your thoughts. Change the  way you think. Not just challenge, but  learn not to believe everything your  thoughts say. Learn to not pay attention  to your thoughts all the time. Start to  notice the positives, because when we're  depressed we tend to focus on all the  negatives, on the past. We ruminate and  ruminate and get caught up in horrible  things, but we can start to notice the  ok stuff and the good stuff. And you can  learn skills again that will help you do  this. So if you're thinking differently  and acting differently, that's going to  have an enormous impact on the way you  feel. Your mood will lift, your energy  will increase, and the more your mood  lifts and your energy increases, you're  going to do more, you're going to be  thinking differently, and so your new  positive cycle is going to develop even  more.  Visit the web page www.get.gg  forward slash problems dot htm, then  click on the name of the problem, whether  it's depression or anxiety or stress or  anger or any of the individual anxiety  disorders such as OCD or panic, and then  follow the self-help guide. Follow those  steps. You can download lots of  worksheets and information leaflets from  there.  You can find further self-help resources  on www.get.gg or www.getselfhelp.co.uk  It's the same website. You can download  self-help mp3 downloads from  www.selfhelpmp3.co.uk. There are some for  depression, anger, anxiety, mindfulness  all different kinds of mp3s. You can ask  your health professional about practical  and fun CBT skills. You can find out  more from www.thedecider.org.uk  and just visit the website www.get.gg 