 Greetings. This presentation is about novel structures and architectures for future communication  systems. My name is Ali Hajimiri, and I will give you, in this presentation, three examples  really of these novel architectures and how, you know, we believe that this future communication  systems will evolve and some of the new aspects that we will see in such systems. Okay, so  there are some long-term trends, so we can start with those. I mean, if you think about  today's phased arrays, what you have is that you have plane, usually planar phased arrays  that are rigid, centralized, everything goes to a centralized node of controlling the data  coming in and data coming out, fixed aperture, and static installation. Once it's installed,  you know you don't change it. Now, we think in the future systems that things will be  a lot different. If you think about it, we expect them to be shape-changing. We would  like them to be, we would think that they would be flexible in general, both mechanically  as well as functionally. They would be distributed and autonomous, meaning that they are decentralized  and they can operate independently, and they have a, they can be variable in terms of the  function and behavior and shape, and it would be highly deployable. So, if you think about  it, this transition is happening, and there are basically, what is making this transition  happen, and there are some of the features of this thing, is that the ability to make  them decentralized, meaning that the elements of the array do not have to be in high-speed  communication with each other, and also, as we will see, they may not even need their  architectures that allow us to do this without even having timing synchronization among them.  And that leads to node autonomy, the ability to make sure that the nodes of the system  operate autonomously. Now, you also have the flexibility that comes either in mechanical  shape or functional shape, and deployability, and as well as mechanical shape changing,  and of course, all of this is combined with operational higher frequency, which brings  an intertwined circuit system and physical design and optimization, if you will.  So let's start with the first example of these three examples that we're talking about. The  first example is what we call a scalable decentralized router or scalable arrays, scalable routers.  The idea here is that if you have an array symbolically shown on the left-hand side,  if you have an array of elements that are independently, but individually can receive  and transmit data, and they can be even non-uniform distributed space, they can operate in concert  to provide a way of receiving, amplifying, and rerouting the signal. So in this case,  you can see it, for example, an incoming signal that's kind of transmitted and received in  different directions. Now, the such systems, of course, can have applications in many situations.  So the one, the picture on the right shows that the practical applications in a terrestrial  setting where you can actually have these devices all around the systems in an environment,  you know, outside and inside the buildings, and they can reroute the signal. So the idea  here is that you're transmitting a burst of data, and it's intended for a particular receiver,  which is not in your line of sight. And these guys, through a single or multiple pops of  these systems, they can route it and send it in a direction desirable, reroute it in  the right direction and get it to the destination that you want automatically and seamlessly.  Also, you can think about a situation where this such system would be used in space, you  can have an array of, again, mechanically unconnected, and basically, elements and relay  elements that are basically in formation flying, and they receive, they have their own sources  of power and all those things, and they basically receive the signal and reroute it and balance  it in the right direction. Now, and they need to be dynamically able to dynamically do this  and do this at a high band. So the question is that how can we achieve something like this?  So let's talk about, let's go through the evolution of this concept. And let's take  you through some several steps of how this can evolve. So for example, if you think about a  classical relay, called sometimes bent pipe relay, the idea here is that you've seen probably  these things on in both rural and urban areas, particularly nowadays, you see them more in  rural areas, when you go on a long drive, you see these like the stations on top of the hills and  mountains that basically have an antenna point at one or multiple antennas pointed in one direction,  and one of multiple antennas pointed in the other direction, and they are relay stations,  basically just receive, amplify and pass. So this is basically a direct pass through with  reamplification of the signal, maybe reconditioning. There's one receiver and one transmitter and the  directions are preset, so it's basically static in that sense. So that's the picture you see on  the upper left. Now, you could make this out of an array, so you can have a receiver array and a  transmitter array. And the idea here is that it's still centralized, your receiver array aggregates  the signal, collects it, sum it, and perhaps amplifies it, and then sends it to an array  of transmitters where you control the relative timing and phase of each one of the elements.  And you create a beam that goes from one direction to another. Now, the advantage,  obviously, for something like this, compared to a static one made with like fixed antennas,  like a parabolic antennas or something like that, is that you can actually change the direction  electronically without any mechanical change to the system. So you can actually  receive signal from one direction, and then you can change the direction to another direction.  Now, if you think about this clearly, if you look at this picture, you may always kind of like,  you may also kind of like think about this picture, which is that basically, if you don't  aggregate, and if you take the signals and individually scale, take each one of the signals,  and amplify it, and condition it, and control the timing and everything. Now, what happens is that  in this case, you can actually also create a receive beam and a transmit beam. And you can  actually control them independently by controlling the relative timing and phases of the signal  that goes in. Now, of course, if you want to get modulated signal process through this thing,  and with bandwidth, you need to control both the phase and timing of the system,  of individual routes. But this way, you can do electronically steering, and you can basically  have a direct transmission, direct connection between individual receiver and individual  transmitters. So, but this is a direct moving in the direction of this, but this does allow you to  basically move in the direction of separating the elements from each other, that can do not have to  be mechanically aggregating, and electronically aggregating the signal, and mechanically attached.  Now, of course, there is a hybrid, which basically, what happens, where you have basically  multiple signals. You can have this concept, but you don't have to do it on an individual element  level. You can do it on subarray level, and each one of these subarrays can actually have its own  summation and redistribution. But from one subarray to the other one, they can be operating  independently. And the question is that, how would something like that work, and can you use it as a  intelligence router and scalable relay? So here is one way to think about it. You can actually  think about it as a programmable mirror. So imagine that you have two signals, one  incident signal shown in green here, and one return, basically the transmitted signal,  just shown in blue. So now, the way we've constructed our individual elements, at least  symbolically here, you can see that they are in opposite polarization. So that's one of the things  that actually helps with the isolation of the transmitted receiver, and we'll talk a little bit  more about that. But the idea here is that you can actually have a synthesized mirror surface.  So on the left, you can see that this mirror is basically receiving something that's broadside,  and reflecting it broadside, basically just receiving, amplifying, processing, and sending  it back. And then on the right, what you see is actually a situation where, by controlling the  relative timing of what you receive and when you transmit it back, you can actually  create a situation that you receive a signal from one direction and transmit it to another.  And in general, you can actually create a situation where you can receive, you can take  the signal that comes from an arbitrary direction and route it to another arbitrary direction by  controlling the timing and phases of individual elements. So let's look at it a little more  carefully. So what happens here is the picture on the left shows that these elements do not even  need to be in a regular pattern or a regular array. So they can actually be spread three  dimensionally in space. And you can have a receive and transmit waveform coming in.  And so what happens is that you receive it in some direction, and you can retransmit  in a different direction that's programmable, but by individual elements, without them having  to actually aggregate the data and retransmit. You can actually write the expressions for this,  and the details of that can be found in the paper below, but the idea here is that you can  actually have a situation where you can control the direction of the phi of transmit and phi  of receive. So the angle from which you receive and the angle to which you transmit through this  equation. So by controlling the time delay of the mth branch, and this expression particularly here  shown is for a regular one-dimensional array, you can generalize it to a three-dimensional  irregular array, but this is like just to show the concept here. And you can see that if you  have a regular one-dimensional array, there's a fixed relationship between the transmit and  receive angle, the receiving angle and the transmitting angle that is determined and  controlled by the time delay of each one of the elements. So if you program each one of  these elements for a given phi tx and phi rx to this value, you will indeed receive a signal from  a direction and retransmit it in a different direction, which is programmable. Now by  controlling and reprogramming the tm, you can actually change that direction. So this picture  basically shows a picture on the left, shows that this pattern is this. So basically what you have  here, you know that shows in this example, yet you have a receive pattern, which shows how  effectively power is received, and the transmit pattern that basically shows that how effectively  the power that's received is retransmitted in a different direction. So in this example, we are  receiving from negative 30 degree and retransmitting to plus 60 degree. And in this  example, we are doing a one-dimensional array actually here to simplify the situation. So you  can actually see that it's an eight-branch array that receives in one direction. So you can think  about it as a programmable mirror. So you actually can bounce it in a desired direction. And you can  imagine this could be useful because you can imagine an environment where there's a large  number of these in the same environment. And by receiving and retransmitting signal, you can  actually route it through different pathways and get it to places where we basically do not have  visibility. And they do not even need to be working. They don't need to be attached, as we'll  see later on, mechanically or electronics. So there are some interesting questions about something  like this. When you make something like this, one of the interesting properties that we'll have is  the so-called peripheral vision, because it also will amplify and retransmit signals coming from  other directions, because there's more than one combination of VTX and PRX in this example  simple equation that would satisfy this equation for any given TM. Now, this peripheral vision  issue can be actually sort of basically the routers also the scale of a router sees in directions  other than where it looks. But basically, the element placement can significantly help with  the direction, with this peripheral vision issue. And you can actually suppress it significantly,  as shown on the plot on the left, that this is actually possible. Now, it can go a little bit  deeper into the architecture. So at a very high level, the architecture is shown on the lower  left. What you see here is that each one of these branches, what we call a branch,  which is basically as an input, it's a receiver and a transmitter, is independently operating.  It has no high speed, there's no high speed inter-branch connection. Basically, there's  no digital high speed data exchange between them. There's some programming that can be done either  wirelessly or through some digital programming lines in this example, but there's no high speed.  Now, even more importantly, there's no need for a shared timing reference in this architecture,  meaning that each one of these branches can have its own timing reference for down-conversion  and up-conversion. And essentially, it goes back to the fact that if you're using the same signal  for down-conversion and up-conversion, that timing error will cancel out itself the first order. And  then you can do your processing in baseband, which is shown here in the center as tau, and we'll talk  about that, to achieve this. Now, of course, for something like this to work, you need to control  both the phase. You need to have phase alignment and timing alignment if there's modulated data.  And both of these are achieved through these blocks, fee, variable fees, that's shown here,  and the variable tau. Now, let's go a little bit deeper into why you don't really need a timing  synchronization among the elements of this array. Because what you can see here is that if there is  any uncertainty on the LOP, it appears both on the up-conversion and down-conversion, up-conversion  path. And you can actually see if you do it the right way, they would cancel each other out. So  not only that that cancels out, and there's no need for an accurate timing synchronization, but  also to the first order, the phase noise of your local oscillator is canceled. And what happens is  that in such case, it allows you to use much lower cost reference signals inside each one of these  branches. So you can actually think about using free running oscillators or inexpensive crystal  oscillators within each branch. And that is significant because then you have also removed,  not only you've removed the high speed data requirement, but also you have removed the need  for a centralized timing reference for all of this. And this plot basically on the left shows  an experimental verification of how the actual desired signal, the phase noise of the oscillator  is not entering it and it's canceled out. As you can see, it's very clean, unlike the other side  band, which is the undesirable one. So now there are other questions about something like this.  For example, one is that what happens if you transmit and receive, you have a full duplex  system, right? You're transmitting and receiving within the same frequency and in close proximity  to each other. So you have to create sufficient isolation. And you can see if you don't have  sufficient isolation, and if you have too much gain, what happens is that your normalized magnitude  and phase of the signal that you generated, the output starts kind of getting degraded,  and that can have an impact on the effectiveness of the system and so on and so forth. Now,  there are several remedies. One, of course, is using polarizations. The other one is using a  structure where you can receive from one side and transmit from the other side. They're isolated  from ground plane, and they are also active cancellation. And some of these methods,  and particularly active cancellation, are methods that are also used in other situations. For  example, when you are dealing with other full duplex systems. And this is a very common thing  to deal with. And yes, and the system needs to be dealing with that. But it is something that's  important to pay attention to, but still definitely not insurmountable. Now, so here's an example of  this implementation of something like that. So this chip basically implements the functions of  that one single branch. And within that, so the architecture is shown on the lower left. So  there's a downconversion processing. And then this is what we call hybrid analog digital time delay.  So delay unit. And this basically allows you to control the timing, which is very important if  you're dealing with data. Because as you know, probably, is that in an array, it's not sufficient  if you're dealing with data, it's not sufficient to be dealing just with the phase. And also,  you have to deal with the actual timing of data to avoid creating distortion in the system.  And this system, actually, in this example, we are operating with a free running oscillator  in the system. So now, the question is that how do you achieve this time delay? The challenge is  that you need a fair amount of time delay. If you're not talking about systems that are on  the range of several meters or higher, you're talking about 10 nanoseconds of delay range.  So you require that. But you also need to find precision of setting that. So obviously,  this is not something that you want to get from a transmission line, because there's two  areas in terms of the power hungry, as well, on chip and things like that. And purely digital  solutions are not sufficient, because the clock periods are too long. So you have to come up with  some sort of a hybrid solution. And you can imagine that you can have, basically, a switch  capacitor solution. And here's a little bit more details about that. So we are constantly going  through a loop and storing the value of the received signal, the in, on these capacitors.  And we are resampling and reading them off with an adjustable controllable delay. So basically,  that the relative timing of when you store and when you read off of a capacitor can be controlled.  And that would basically correspond to the delay. So it's basically an adjustable buffer. If you  read right after you wrote, basically, what happens is that you will get very little delay.  And if you wait, and you're running behind to the point that you're reading right before you  write the next sample, you get the maximum delay. So this is basically where we get the coarse delay.  There's a medium delay, which is provided by additional signal, basically, additional delay,  digital delay lines. And there's a fine control delay, which is basically a voltage control delay  line that's used. So the system, basically, the way we implement it has three different levels  of relay, fine, medium, and coarse. And these are some of the measurement results associated with  this. So what you can see here is that, basically, on the top, the three plots show the accuracy of  the phase variations and the delays that you can actually obtain by controlling the signal  at different frequencies. So you can actually see you can have a variable delay over a broad range.  And you can have, basically, the coarse, medium, and fine delay. And on the bottom,  you basically see that this performance of the LNA and the power amplifier and all these things.  And the phase rotators that we have here, basically, on the down conversion and up conversion,  allow you to cover the full 360 degrees of the signal in the down and up conversion system.  So you basically have independent control of carrier phase as well as the delay that the  actual data stream, the modulation, experiences using these combinations. So now, here's a little  bit more about the performance and the results of this thing. So what you see here, if you look  in the picture on the upper left, there are, you see, basically, you see four router branches.  Two of them are placed closer, which you see bigger on the lower left part of, I mean,  we are still looking at the upper left picture. There are two that are closer. And if you look carefully  on the lower right corner of that picture, you see two that are far away.  So these two ones, the two that are closer, about one meter, and those two that are  farther away, they are 2.5 meters. And what you're doing is that you're testing them with,  we are sending and transmitting with two polarizations that are generated by these four antennas,  and each one of these branch elements has a transmit and receive antenna that are in two  different polarizations. So basically, we are transmitting and receiving the signal,  and we are asking this relay that's distributed in space to send it in a certain direction.  In this case, basically sending it back directly to us in this experiment. So in this experiment,  we are basically transmitting and receiving, and what you can see that you can actually control  things. If you just do the phase control, obviously you will not get constant group delay  because you have basically different distances and phase is not sufficient.  But with using our hybrid delay line methodology, you can overcome an offset of  about 10 nanoseconds in this case. And as you can see on the lower right plot, you basically have  constant same group delay achieved for all four of these elements. And this is demonstrated more  clearly perhaps in this picture, where basically you are transmitting 16-QAM and 64-QAM through the  system. So what you see on the upper right plot is that for 16-QAM before and after,  applicate turning the programmable time delay on, the hybrid time delay. And you can see that  it improves the quality of the constellation. And for 64-QAM, you can see that the constellation is  completely scrambled, and it's completely useless as is. But what you can see is that when you  actually apply the controllable time delay, this system, although it's distributed over a broad  range of spatial positions, it can recover and reconstruct the actual signal constellation.  So and then basically, but on top of that, the other thing is that now we can also use  this degree of freedom, not only to adjust for this, but you can actually create two different  themes at the same time. So you can actually have two different frequencies,  slightly different frequencies. You can create two beams that are pointing in different directions.  And basically, this is symbolic. This is shown here also, you can see it from the phase plot  on the upper right. And where the arrows point are basically where the frequency at which we are  trying to make sure that everything lines up. And you can see, you can do it for two different  frequencies at two different positions, or basically two different bearings, two different angles.  And this plot basically shows the ability to do that on a dynamic basis and programmability. So  for example, in the upper left plot, what you see is that you're both the 25 gigahertz and 24.9  gigahertz beams are sent to the same direction. Now, by reprogramming the timing and the phase  control, you basically can see that you can create maintain one beam at this pointing straight up,  but the other beam is basically steered to the left. And then the other one, you basically steer  the beam to the right. So this shows that you have the ability to reprogram the direction  and how the programmable relay works. So this is one example of some of the kind of things  that we think that are interesting and could be useful in future communication systems.  So the next example goes back to what we call shape-changing arrays and shape-changing antennas.  So shape-changing antennas have been discussed mechanically. Some of them are used for  deployability, reconfigurability of the frequency, changing the frequency. Some of them basically are  used to change the radiation pattern or polarization control and things of that.  Now, also arrays have been considered, although they are passive arrays. Basically,  if you think about them, people have thought about shape-changing arrays  or as like some sort of a meta-service, but these are passive structures. So the question is that,  can we create an active one? And I'll show you an example of the active one. So here's an example of  an origami-inspired array, which basically can change its shape. In the middle, you can see it's  kind of more or less in a flat configuration. And this array can go into a cylindrical configuration,  for example, as shown on the left, or it can go into a semi-spherical configuration, which is  shown on the right-hand side. Now, these configurations are supported. So the way  this is implemented is that basically, you have a mechanical backbone, and we have this  tile of arrays. Each one of them controls the behavior of one element, which has its own  radiators. And they're controlled through flexible cables and signal distribution. And what this  allows you is that basically to create this structure and program the behavior of it. So  this basically shows what is in there. There's a chip that is actually an RFIC that's developed  sitting on each one of them. If you look at it in the center of the lower left picture,  you can see that basically that's where the IC is that generates the RF and controls the phase  shifting. And there's some supporting additional circuitry. And what these do is that basically,  you can actually generate different kinds of aperture at different angles. And we'll see  how that works. So this is basically a test setup. So it's mounted on this part of the range. And  what it does, basically, it rotates it in azimuth and elevation. And you can, by controlling that,  you can actually measure the behavior of the system while these elements work in concert,  and they're locked to each other to generate signals. So what you see in this picture is the  beam patterns that you can generate for different configurations, for a flat configuration,  for a cylindrical X, cylindrical Y, and a spherical one. So what you see here, for example,  is an interesting aspect so that you can, by changing the actual mechanical conformation and  shape of the array, you can get around some of the issues that are challenging in a planar array.  So for example, what you see here is the maximum EIRP achievable by a planar array is higher,  obviously, but it drops faster at the steeper angles. But if you go, if you change the configuration  and conformation of the array, the mechanical conformation, what it does, it allows you,  for example, at steeper angles, you can see that the cylindrical, associate the proper axis  cylindrical and the spherical provide a much higher maximum EIRP at very steep angles that  those do not. And this is useful because in situations where you need to adjust, the system  needs to adjust and address to a large number, address a large number of directions and a broad  range of directions, this can be quite useful. There's another example. So the third example  we're talking about is like flexible arrays. So the idea here is that can you make flexible  arrays that can be deployed, can be opened up, rolled up. And especially if you're thinking  about airborne and spaceborne applications, they're lightweight and they can be actually  used. So you can think about it as an active fabric. And people have talked about flexible  electronics, lower frequencies, and all those things. And we are talking about flexible arrays  that are implemented at very high frequency than RF circuitry here. So this is an example of the  kind of flexible systems that we're talking about. You can see that they're very flexible  and they're very lightweight. So we made some of these things and you can actually see that  you can create these power transfer and as well as the communication system within the systems.  So this is an example of a 256 element transfer array that has 16 RFICs. Each one of them  addresses 16 of the antennas. And this system is quite flexible. As you can see, for example,  it's bent here. And in conjunction with the algorithms that are developed to deal with this,  this can actually not only operate under proper confirmation, but it can correct for its shape  change and make an adjustment accordingly. And this basically, we expect these to produce things  that are much, much lighter than the current system, in addition to being flexible. And  you know, we are thinking the target systems we're talking about are in the range of  basically 50 grams per meters or less. And this is very, very light. If you think about it,  the gramage of a sheet of paper is actually 80 grams per meter. So right now we are about,  in terms of gramage, we are about like five times higher than the gramage of a sheet of paper,  but we are actually moving in the direction of making these active phase arrays fully operational  at gramages that are comfortable to sheets of paper. So there's, when you have something like  this, there's this shape correction, right? And you have to think about the fact that when  something is flexible, it becomes floppy and flimsy, and you need to deal with that. So one  of the things you can do is that use the system itself to measure its own confirmation and make  corrections for that. So one of the ways it can do that, you can look at the near field coupling  of the antennas and individual radiators and try to determine from that the actual shape that it's  forming. So these are examples of some of the work that we've done. We've developed these algorithms  and systems that enable you to do this. And what they do is essentially they would, and this is a  paper actually in this year's IMS that I encourage you to look at. So is that basically what they do  is that you can see from these measurements on the right-hand side that they can actually  reconstruct the exact shape of the array from measurements to a very kind of interesting way  of looking at the measurement data and extract it from that. And they work both for concave and  convex settings. So even if they don't have line of sight, you can still get pretty accurate results  about the shape of the system. So this is done for a passive array. And then this is an active  array at 10 gigahertz, but each one of the elements is actually an active, it has an associated chip  that kind of has a receiver and transmitter. And these are the measurements associated with that.  And of course, when you combine these things, you can make this apparatus that constantly changes  the shape of the array. And in real time, you can see that you can actually do a dynamic shape  measurement and correction that leads to much better transmission of power and much better  focusing and beamforming capabilities for the system. So with this, let me just come to the  conclusion. And basically, we think that some of the future architectures of these systems  are going to be decentralized, shape-changing, distributed, flexible, and lightweight and low-cost.  And I hope that these examples give you some, I guess, ways to think about some  other additional ways of dealing with these new emerging applications, and hopefully  can be of some use to you in the future. Thank you. 