 My name is Zelda, and I am a sales associate  at the Ghirardelli Chocolate Company.  Since being furloughed,  luckily my parents have been able to support me,  but I have turned to using a credit card  for certain purchases.  I've been picking up a lot of new hobbies  with all this extra time that I have.  I've taken up painting again,  and just recently me and my group of friends  decided to start a Dungeons & Dragons campaign,  so I'm gonna do that over Zoom.  The only thing I know about building credit from school  is that you need to do it.  I wanna know about building credit  because my family has told me  that if I'm gonna take out student loans,  I need to be serious about it  so I can get a good interest rate  so I'm not in debt for the rest of my life with low rates.  But again, I just don't know how to build it,  so I keep getting told you have to do it,  but then not told how to do it,  and that's been really frustrating.  How do I do it?  How do I build credit?  How do I maintain it when I'm taking things out like loans  or when I'm paying off debt?  How do I keep it from getting trapped in a low number?  Hey, Zelda, I'm Jeanne Chatzky.  I'm a financial expert and the CEO of HerMoney.com,  and I get why you are so confused about credit.  It is a really important tool to have for adult life,  but very rarely does anyone tell you how to get it.  A credit score is just a number  that is based on your credit history,  and your credit score looks a lot like an SAT score.  It runs from about 350 to 850,  and the closer you can get to that 850, the better,  but as long as you are in the 700s or above,  you are doing just fine.  Here's the way to get started.  I want you to look for something  called a secured credit card.  A secured credit card allows you  to put a credit card in your wallet  without having a lot of income.  You make a deposit of a small sum of money,  a couple hundred dollars,  with the bank that will issue you this secured credit card.  That couple hundred dollars becomes your credit limit.  Then every month, you want to use that credit card.  You want to just charge it,  make a little bit of a purchase on one,  don't go crazy, don't charge more than $100,  and then pay it off every single month in full.  As long as you charge a little bit, pay it off,  charge a little bit, pay it off, every single month,  usually for the next 18 to 24 months,  you're gonna build a good credit history,  which means you're going to build decent credit,  and then that card, in most circumstances,  will convert to a regular credit card.  You want to do the same thing,  charge a little, pay it off, charge a little, pay it off,  and eventually, you've got this long, robust credit history  that you can use to make those bigger purchases  that you want later on.  And Zelda, the last thing I want you to know about this  is that building credit doesn't happen overnight,  but it does happen.  So just stay on track for the next two years,  and you're gonna be good to go. 