 What up? That's a peace sign. What up? That's what's up. My name's Tyler, and we're gonna  learn some math, boy. Okay. Or girl. I don't know why I said it weird. Okay, so what I'll  look at today is something from algebra. It's called using formulas, okay? So what we're  gonna work on is just how to use a basic formula, okay? I think a good one to use is  one that we use with rectangles, all right? Main thing about rectangles, four sides, all  90 degree angles, opposite sides of equal length. You've got yourself a rectangle, and  everything's 90 degrees inside there. I think I already said that. If I said it again, I'd  get a double up. Sometimes you got a double up, back to back homers. I don't know what  I'm saying. Okay, so let's say we got a rectangle right here, all right? A formula that you'll  use with rectangles is called perimeter, okay? Let's say you've got the perimeter of  your rectangle. You've got your length, you've got your width. Your perimeter is the distance  around it. A common problem you'll see whenever you work on rectangles and they do perimeter  is a fence, okay? If you've got a fenced in backyard that's in just a rectangle, the perimeter  is the fence, okay? That's the distance of that line, okay? You're not finding all this  in here. You're finding just the length of this as if you, like we're a giant, like the  Hulk, topical. You've got it, you broke it, stretched it out, and then you found the length  of it, okay? Now, to find the perimeter, you could add up this width plus this length plus  this width plus this length, okay? But we could also use something called a formula.  Now, we are having two lengths, so what's a shortcut for saying you're going to add  up two lengths together? Lengths together. Two times the length. That would find the  measure of this and this, right? Now, what would I do to find my two widths? We know  these are going to be the same length, so I could just do two times the width. Now,  what am I going to do with those numbers and those numbers to find the total number? I'm  going to add those two together, and that's going to equal my perimeter, okay? So, right  here, we've got the formula for the perimeter of a rectangle, okay? This is a formula. As  you go through all your secondary math classes and probably some of your math classes you've  already had, you're going to see a lot of formulas, okay? Some will be attached to shapes,  like when you do a lot of geometry stuff. Some are just going to be formulas. Two x  plus three equals 12. It's a formula, okay? Formulas are things you use to find an answer.  Most often, you'll use formulas with relation to something real, okay? Something that's  like doing a word problem or something that's working something out for you, okay? So, that's  a formula. Okay, so you know what a formula is. Let's use our example formula, which is  the perimeter of a rectangle, and let's solve a couple easy ones, okay? Let's say we've  got, let's say we want to find the perimeter and area of each rectangle, okay? We'll start  with the perimeter because that's the formula I've given you. All right, let's say this  is seven inches, and this is 15 inches, okay? Not too bad. All right, let's say I want to  find the perimeter, okay? We use our formula to find the perimeter. I know this measure  right here is my width. I know this measure right here is my length. So, what I do in  a formula is I take those numbers, and I replace them with wherever that letter is. So, for  instance, in this formula, because I know I'm finding the perimeter, I use this formula.  For length, I'll use the 15 because what this is saying is essentially that 15 is the exact  same as the length. It's like when you go to the store, and they've got something, like  say there's no tax, and say they've got a really sweet hat, okay? And you're like, I  love that hat, okay? Say it's 20 bucks. The $20 bill is equal to the hat. You can substitute  them $20 for that hat because that's what it's equal to. In this formula, that length  is equal to 15. So, therefore, in my formula, I'm going to bring it all down here. We've  got 2, it still stays the same, times our length, which is 15, plus sine 2, times our  width, which we said is 7, equals my perimeter. Now, I just step-by-step solve my equation.  2 times 15 is 30, plus 2 times 7 is 14, equals P. Add those two together, 44 equals my perimeter.  Now, if they're a stickler for the rules, they'll say, what's the measurement? That's  how all people who are sticklers sound, okay? What's the measurement? Are you measuring  in feet, or miles, or universes? Tell me that. Well, first off, you talk like a weirdo. Second  off, we know it's inches. We know that whenever we multiply it, it's going to be still inches,  okay? 44 inches, that's the measure of that. So, we found the perimeter using the formula.  Using that formula, we found the perimeter, okay? Found what the distance is all the way  around it. Let's say we want to find the area. Area is all the stuff inside there, okay?  You're going to see area whenever you talk about, when you buy a house. They're going  to say, well, how many square feet is the house, lovey? First off, you sound pretty  cool, like Mr. Howell, Gilligan's Island. You have no idea what I'm talking about, okay?  So, when you find the area, the square foot of your house, that's how wide it is. Not  wide, but length and width. It's the total measurement of the inside of the house, okay?  So you're finding how big it is, not the measurement around it, because you could have a, oh, it's  the perimeter of our house is 200 feet. Well, it could be a straight line. You could just  be walking through a hallway, okay? With area, you can see all that. Well, I guess  it could still be the same thing, but area's better for square footage, okay? If you don't  understand what I'm talking about, talk to your mom, okay, or your dad. I have no idea  what they're talking about. All right, so the formula for area, as we're using formulas,  it is length times width equals your area, okay? All I do is plug in what I have for  length, which is 15 inches, times my width, which is 7 inches. All right, now we just  multiply. 7 times 15, which is 70, times 5, which is 105, and then when you do inches  times inches, you do the little thing called inches squared, because we don't know, we  don't want to put in what inches it is. We want to put inch squared, because it gives  us our form of measurement. Equals area. First off, it's probably a pretty small backyard  if that's what we're talking about. I like to think we're talking about a gold bar. It's  a flat gold bar, but that's it. So, you found the area using formulas. Now, what I want  to talk to you about is a little bit more advanced version of using formulas, okay?  Before when we did the perimeter of a rectangle, or the area of a rectangle, they gave us the  length, they gave us the width, we plugged them in, we found our answer, okay? It's a  standard math problem. Put in the numbers, find your answer. Now, what I want to look  at is how to break down a formula when you're not given the perfect cookie cutter numbers  and things and such of that. So, let's say we've got a formula that is 4x equals, ah,  this is worse. Let's say we're doing a formula for area. Scratch what you just saw. I did  not mess up. Call your mom, tell her, hey, he didn't mess up. She's going to be like,  who's he? I'm going to be like, not me. Okay, so, looking at this, let's do area equals  length times width, okay? Now, let's say we want to find the missing measure of this,  okay? All right? On the ones we did earlier, the easier ones, they gave us the length,  they gave us the width, we found the answer, okay? We found A given L and W. Now, let's  try it where we don't have something that sweet and nice. Let's say we know the area  is 16, we know the length is 2, what's the width? I don't know. What's the width?  Fun fact, that's also what your face looks like if you don't pick a picture on Facebook.  So, that's on you. Okay, so, here's my phrase, and if anyone tries to tell you this phrase  and they use a certain tone of voice, well, they're stealing. That's copyright infringement,  and identity theft is not a joke. I'm talking to you, mom. My mom. She stole my name and  gave it to me when I was born. Cool story. Okay, here's my phrase. Plug in what you know  to find what you don't know, okay? You got to get sassy at the end. Let's try it again.  Everybody together. You ready? Plug in what you know to find what you don't know. Don't  know. What you don't know. Plug in what you know to find what you don't know. Keep everything  in order. We're going down. Here we go. Plug in what we know. We know A is 16. Instead  of A, I'm putting 16. What else do I know? L. Instead of L, I'm putting the number 2.  Not a Z. It's 2, okay? Ms. McDonald, don't you correct how I write my 2, okay? W, do  we know it? No. That's our formula, okay? Now, let's say a lot of times when they do  this, they're not just going to want you to do this. No. They're pretty high maintenance.  They make you go a little further. What they want you to do is they want you to get that  W by itself, okay? All we do to do that is we do our simple math. What's the opposite  of 2 times W? We use division, so we divide our 2 to get rid of it. That cancels out.  That's 8. That's W. I don't know if you've learned this yet because I think this comes  before this in algebra, but if you have, that's what you do. If not, stop there. I gave you  all the info you need, okay? Good stuff. All right, now I want to look at an advanced  version of using formulas, okay, as far as algebra 1 is concerned, all right? All right,  I don't know why I did that. I was wiping the crap off my head and pointing to you.  Sorry I said crap. Don't tell your teacher. Okay, so we're using formulas, okay? Using  I equals PRT, all right? This is a common formula. You'll see it a lot in real life  and in the classroom. I is your interest. P is your principal. R is your rate. T is  your time, okay? This is something you can do to find out how much interest you're going  to accrue or earn if you have a certain amount of money in the bank. You make a certain percentage  off that money over a certain amount of time. A common thing is a savings account or a CD.  Not the compact discs everybody bought a bunch for a really high price in the mid-2000s and  late 90s. A CD is something that's like a deposit that you can put money into a bank  and you say, I'm going to keep this money in here. Let's say you have, you know, 10  grand and you're like, I'm going to give the bank 10 grand and I'm going to keep it in  there and I'm not going to get any of that money out for five years. At the end of the  five years, they're going to give me a percentage of that money so you can actually make money  by just not spending your money, okay? It's weird, but banks like to have your money.  That's why their buildings are so nice. I'm talking to you, banks. Okay, I'm talking to  banks from Mighty Ducks. Remember him? He was really good at hockey. Okay, so interest  is the amount of money you're going to earn based on the principle, which is the amount  of money you put into the account or put into the savings thing. Rate is how much you're  making at, the percentage you're making off of what you put in, and then time is how long  it's in there, in years, usually in years, okay? So we're using formulas. We're going  to use this formula. I've got some information here. What do I not have? T, that's correct.  My T I don't have, that's what we got to find out. We want to find out how much time do  we have to have our principle in there before we can earn this much money, okay? So let's  find out. Remember my phrase? Plug in what you know to find what you don't know. People  be calling. Probably the president or my friend Nate. I'm not telling you which one, okay?  If you want to see videos of Nate and Tyler, go to TylerTarver.com or just Google Nate  and Tyler Tarver and you'll find it, whatever. Okay, anyways, here we go. So let's plug in  our stuff, plug in what you know to find what you don't know. What do we know? Principle.  We know the rate. We know the interest, and we don't know the time. So plug in what you  know to find what you don't know. Don't know. Okay, interest. How much money do we not want  to know how to earn? Forty-two bucks, okay? Plug it in for I, bring everything straight  down. Bring down your equal sign. Bring down everything. That's how you do math, okay?  Principle, 350 bucks. Let's say I have 350 bucks. That's how much I can put into my account.  I want to know how long do I have to keep 350 bucks in the bank's hands before they're  going to give me 42 bucks for it. Let's find out. Rate, 6%. Now, you don't want to put  6% in. This is probably the most complicated part. You don't want to put 6% in. You want  to turn that into a real number, a decimal, okay? To do that, you move the decimal over  twice. Decimal's right here. We go one, two. That would be .06. So we multiply that by  .06, and then we multiply it by our time, which is, we don't know our time. So there  we go. So now, we take out our calculators, which mine looks a lot like a cell phone because  it is a cell phone. We need to simplify this and get T by itself. We've got to get this  formula to where the T is by itself instead of the I being by itself, so we know how much  time we have to put this in here to have it, to find out how much, words, right? How much  time do we have to put our 350 bucks in there at 6% interest to get 42 bucks out of it,  okay? Let's find out. I'm going to do 350 times .06, and it's 21, times T, okay? Times  T. That's better. All right? Now, last step, it's being multiplied, so to get rid of 21,  I do the opposite, which is divide. That goes away, and then 42 divided by 21 is 2. So our  time is 2 years. So we plugged in what we knew to find what we don't know, okay? So  a good thing to do when you're working with formulas, sit back, look at your problem,  and figure out what you just figured out, okay? So look at this formula. I know that  it's going to take me 2 years, okay? 2 years to do what? Well, it means if I have 350 bucks,  and I put it in the bank at 6% interest, I want to know how long it's going to take me  to earn 42 bucks. I need $42 exactly to take out this hot shit from second period. What's  up, girl? You know who you are, all right? To make that 42 bucks, I have to keep that  in the bank for 2 years to get that, okay? So that's pretty much it. That's how you do  it. That's how you use formulas. Holla at your boyfriend. Tyler Tarver, TylerTarver.com,  at Tyler Tarver on stuff. Subscribe. Bye. 