 So hi, hello and welcome, MicrobeHunter here, and today in this video I want to show you  a few cells from mammals.  Like for example, we humans are of course also mammals, but specifically I want to answer  the question why is it possible, or rather how is it possible, that even though the cells  of a human being, even though they have the same DNA, so all of my cells have pretty much  the same DNA, why is it still possible that the cells look so different and do so many  different tasks?  Well, if the DNA controls the cells, and if the DNA is the genetic information that controls  the cells, and if all of the cells have the same DNA, then why are the cells so different?  That's a very interesting question, and at the end of the video I would like to also  talk about one of the big unsolved mysteries of biology, and of course this topic also  relates to the cells that I would like to show you today.  Well, first of all, what do we see here in the background?  This is the cross-section of a kidney, and if you look very carefully, then you're able  to see the individual cells here, and those dark red dots that you see here, these are  the nuclei of the cells, so this is of course a specimen that has been stained, and those  white circles over here, these are tubules where urine is being produced, so the kidney  is there to filter the blood and to remove waste products, among other things, and there  are many, many of these tiny tubules in the kidney, and here this is the cross-section,  and let's remember very carefully how the cells here look like.  I would like to show you now the cells of muscle, and you're going to see that they  look very different.  So this here is now skeletal muscle, or also known as striated muscle, and these are very  long muscle fibers.  By the way, this is the same magnification, I'm using now my 60x magnifying objective,  and one of the very typical things is, look at those tiny stripes that you see here, those  narrow horizontal lines, this gives the muscle a name, these are so-called striations, and  these are the so-called light and the dark bands, and they are there because these are  protein fibers there that cause the muscle to contract.  And for our purposes, what I think is important is simply to appreciate that the cells of  muscle look very different, obviously, and that they perform, of course, a very different  function, but still, they have the same DNA as all of the other body cells, and here,  for example, you can see the striations quite well.  And again, why is that?  How can it be possible that even though muscle cells have the same DNA as the kidney cells  that we've just seen, how is it still possible that they look so different?  Okay, I'm going to show you now the next slide.  So let's get it a little bit into focus over here, okay, now here we go.  Look at those dark structures over here, I mean, these are so-called osteocytes and we're  looking right now at bone, this is bone tissue, compact bone, and those dark dots here, these  are the bone cells that are able to not only make bone, but also break down bone and rearrange  the bone.  And these osteocytes, they can last for a very long time, I have read somewhere that  they can survive many, many decades, so 25 years and even longer.  So you can see that, yeah, there are quite a few of them here, and they again look very  different and they perform, again, very different tasks, but do I have to repeat myself now  or not?  They contain, again, the same DNA as the other cells, as the muscle cells and the kidney  cells that we've seen, okay?  Still they look very different and perform different functions.  How is this possible, okay?  How is this possible?  But don't worry, the answer will come after the next slide.  This here is a cross-section through the scalp, the scalp is the skin of the head,  and here again we're able to see quite nicely the different dots here, all of these dots  are the different cells, and you can see over here, this here is the surface of the skin  and you can see that the top layer of the skin cells starts to shed off here.  But those cells of the scalp, yeah, of course, I don't know if we're able to find it, there  are some fat tissues in here, but if we're able to, if we're a little bit lucky, we might  actually also see the formation of hair.  Wow, look at this, there are again some huge cells over here, and look at this here, this  seems to be the place where hair is made, okay?  And this red thing that you see over here, this is actually a little part of hair which  is being formed, so the cells around here that you see, they are responsible for making  the hair protein.  Again, very different shape, function, and sizes, and you have again different tissues  over here, I don't know, maybe also fat tissues for fat storage in the skin, of course, very  important.  We've got some muscles that are able to pull on the hair and to rise the hair even, so  that sometimes, especially when you're cold, then you might be able to notice that some  of the hair, especially on your hands, they start to stand up, so there are muscles involved  here that basically pull the hair up.  So there are quite a few structural adaptations here, and yeah, all of those cells have the  same DNA.  I think I need to answer now the question of how this is possible, that even though  the DNA is the same, that the cells perform different functions, and the thing is the  following is that the cells, even though they have the same DNA, not all of the DNA  is actually also used, and what we biologists say, expressed.  The purpose of DNA is to code for proteins, there are many, many different proteins in  a human body, in human cells, and those proteins are the structures that actually do the tasks,  they actually do the work in a cell.  And how to make those proteins, this information is stored in the DNA of the cells, however  not all of the DNA is always needed, and to give you an example, my skin cells, they contain  of course also the DNA how to digest food, even though their responsibility is not to  digest food, they still carry this DNA, but this DNA is not used.  It's packaged away, and it is not active.  And different cells have different parts of the DNA that are active, and therefore the  different cells are able to make different proteins, and therefore they are able to do  different tasks.  And this is basically the answer to this mystery, how is it possible to have so many different  cells.  At the beginning, when we were all a fertilized egg cell, a zygote, but those very basic cells  had the potential to make other cell types.  And those cells that you see here are so-called differentiated cells, differentiated skin  cells, and they do not have the possibility to form different cell types anymore, because  they are already skin cells.  And the cells are already differentiated, and part of the DNA that is not used is packaged  away, and therefore it is not possible to convert those skin cells now to, I don't know,  other cell types that we have seen.  At least, this is not possible naturally, but let me assure you that scientists are  working on this possibility as well.  But I would like to now talk a little bit about this big unsolved mystery, or still  the scientific problem that we still have in biology, and that is the following.  Even though the information is stored on the DNA, on how the different cell types and the  different tissue types, it is where exactly on the DNA is the information coded how I  as a person should look like anatomically.  So for example, where in the DNA are we able to find the information that I have to have  one nose here, two eyes, a mouth?  Where can you find this information?  It is stored on the DNA, but it is not possible to locate it.  So the question of morphogenesis, as it's called, of how to make a living multicellular  organism, this information, even though it is stored on the DNA, we don't know where  it is exactly.  I mean, it is stored a little bit, as I would say, between the lines.  It's what we biologists call an emergent property, where certain features and properties appear  out of the interaction of many, many different parts.  And for this reason, how you have all of this information stored in the DNA is still one  of the biggest mysteries in biology.  So if I give you a piece of DNA, or the DNA of an organism, and I ask you how does the  organism look like, then you're not able to read it out of the DNA directly.  So you have to actually let the cell divide and let the organism form and develop until  you're able to see how it actually looks like.  But you're not able to read it directly out of the DNA.  That's still one of the unsolved mysteries here.  Well, yeah, as we look through all of those cells that I showed you right now, I have  to tell you I'm always very fascinated by the complexity of nature and the complexity  of life.  So I hope that you liked the video.  If you did, I do invite you to subscribe to this channel, of course, do leave your comments  behind below.  I wish you all the best, happy microbe hunting as always, and see you around next time.  Bye bye. 