 Google's mission is to organize the world's information and make it universally accessible  and useful.  And some of the most important information out there today is quality journalism.  We believe that the democratization of media has created new opportunities and new roles  for journalists to play in the media industry.  The News Lab is Google's effort to use our technologies to be part of this innovation  in journalism that's happening today.  We're really focused on how we can empower journalists and media entrepreneurs through  tools, data, and programs.  I think it's extremely important that we come in in this very collaborative fashion and  say, what is it that we can do?  We see that journalists tap into a number of different tools.  We have Fusion Tables, which is a data visualization tool using maps.  Maps itself, Google Earth, ways to really get a sense of perspective around where a  story is taking place.  There are three billion searches performed on Google every single day, and being able  to look across these searches and look for trends in what people are curious about gives  journalists a new tool for telling data-driven stories.  Another way that the News Lab is working with journalists and startups is through a series  of programs that we're launching.  One of our partners is the Center for Investigative Reporting, and we've produced a series of  events called TechRanking.  The idea is to bring together technologists and journalists to really unite around an  important idea.  We have a partnership with Storyful, and we're working to create a YouTube Newswire, a tool  that pushes verified, user-generated news clips to newsrooms around the world.  We're also working with MatterVC, a media incubator in San Francisco, and we're helping  them expand their curriculum to a far greater number of startups around the world.  We're at a time when really anything is possible in media.  Information storytelling is taking place all over the media ecosystem, and we believe  the best way to create a more informed society is when journalists and technologists work  together, and that's why we're here. 