 Hello, I'm Brad the Framer at Carlin's Gallery, and today we'll be covering the  matting and mounting of watercolor originals. I picked one of Carlin's  originals here, and the first thing you have to know is that it needs to be  fairly flat before you start. This is flat enough. We use a press here at  Carlin's, but if you have a Ripley watercolor original at home, you'd like  to spritz it with the back with your fine mister or some other sprayer, put it  on something flat, protect it with a towel or a piece of release paper, and  then you can press it with an iron on steam setting. Get it nice and warm, hot  and soft, and then lay a book or something over it until it cools. The  next part is to select a mat. I've picked this one. I like the green around  the edge. I like the contrast, and I like this because it'll show up well on the  camera that we're using here today. What I'd like to find out, first of all, is how  wide the sides are. Generally, your mats will be the same all the way around  unless they're bottom-weighted, but even ones that have the hole or the window  centered are going to have some variation, and I always like to have the  widest one on the bottom. So this is three and a quarter. This is three and  five sixteenths. Three and a quarter. Three and a quarter. That makes this  slightly wider than the other three. You maybe can't tell, but it is, and when  we're finished and it sits down into your picture frame, gravity is going to  take over and it should even out. So if that's the bottom, that makes this the  top. I'm going to mark that so I remember. Set it aside, and then get the backing.  Acid-free backing. I'm just leaving the picture under there for now, and you want  to set this up so the tops are together. We're going to hinge the top of the mat  to the top of the backing, getting it even side to side, and then I'm going to  weigh it down so it doesn't move. We stack glass. This is layers of glass  stacked together, a little bit of foam core on the back to soften it, and then  wrapped up with packing tape. So when it's put together like this, and  especially with a single mat, you'll notice again that this is a double, but  even though it's two layers thick, it's still sitting below the surface. We like  these surfaces to be even, so I always take a little bit of mat board. You can  use just about anything that's hard, and that will raise the mat up so that it's  at the same height. All right, putting the weight back on. Now I'm going to hinge  these together using artist tape, inch-and-a-half wide artist tape. Pulling  out a piece that's almost as wide as the backing. Cut that and stick that down here,  right down the middle to cover both. You can kind of see where the seam is, and  you press it down. You can use your hand. I like to use a brayer. All right, now I  can take the weight off, fold it, push down on it. Watch out for the artwork.  Push down on it and seam it so it makes a nice book-like hinge. Then it will not  wiggle around relative to the backing. Now we get our painting back here.  Set it in about what looks like the middle, and fold her up again. Make sure  the bottom is where you want it. I didn't quite hit that quite right, but  that's okay. I'm going to move it around. We make it so it covers about a quarter  of an inch all the way around. That's just the way the windows are cut to fit  with the size paper that Carlin paints on. Okay, once that's there, I'm going to  weight that down. If you'll excuse me, I might end up sticking my head  into the view here, just to make sure that it's covered completely. Okay, it's  covered. We like to hinge it to the mat, to the backing, rather than to the mat.  It's easier to take apart. If you need to someday, you can save the mat. All right,  so what I'm going to do here is move this down a little bit. We don't want it  too high because we're going to be slipping tape underneath this. So I want  it mostly down here, and get the tape ready. This is water-activated linen  framers tape. Here comes my dog. Hello, Roxy. I hear your toenails. That's all right.  Yeah, you just sit there. All right, I'm pulling off about eight inches of  water-activated or gummed linen framers tape, folding that in half, cutting that  in half, folding that in half, and cutting that in half. Now I have four pieces all  about the same size. As it is water-activated, I have here a sponge on  a dish, adding a little water to it. Colin licks them. I don't care for the taste, so  I use the sponge. All right, getting that wet and slipping it underneath the  painting, sticky side up or wet side up, with just about 3 quarters of an inch to  an inch poking up above the painting. I'm going to put a weight on to hold  that still. I'm going to do that to the other side now. A really wide picture, of  course, you would use three, and I just moved that, but I'm going to take a chance  that it's going to be okay. All right, put that on there, and put this back on there  to hold that. Now the T-mount. This is stuck to the back of the painting for  obvious reasons. You don't want to have tape on the front of the painting. Now  this T-mount crosses over the tape to stick the tape to the backing, not to the  front of the painting. I'll do that on that side, get this wet, and do it on this  side. Pressing it down, a little brayer action here, and we're done. Don't forget,  don't cover up the signature. A little check on the sides to make sure that  it's covered adequately, and we're done. It's ready to be framed. 