 Objective 9.5, core practical, investigate the relationship between organisms and their  environment using fieldwork techniques including quadrats and belt transects.  Objective 9.6, explain how to determine the number of organisms in a given area  using raw data from fieldwork techniques including quadrats and belt transects.  So ecologists work to study and monitor ecosystems and part of this is monitoring population sizes  and how they are distributed in the ecosystem. Now this can sometimes be very challenging,  for example counting every daisy in a field would take a very long time, therefore scientists use  sampling techniques to get an estimation which is much quicker. Ecologists use a piece of apparatus  called a quadrat to take samples. Now a quadrat is very simple, it's a square metal frame usually  one meter in length but will vary depending on where and what you're going to be sampling.  This quadrat here you can just about see is split up into a hundred smaller squares which can  sometimes make counting easier especially if you're trying to work out the percentage cover  in that quadrat. So let's say you had a task where you needed to compare the populations of daisies  in two areas of your school playing fields. How would you go about doing that? So we're looking at  populations here. Well first of all you're going to mark out two identical sized areas, 10 meters by 10  meters using a large tape measure in location A and location B and then use the random number  generator function on your calculator to choose those coordinates along the tape measure. So you  get your calculator to generate this random number and that's how far along the x-axis  you go and then you do another random number and you move up the y-axis and that gives you  a random coordinate to place your quadrat. It's very important that it is placed randomly so you  don't have any bias here and place the quadrat in the same way always with the left corner at that  point which you've selected at random. Then count the number of daisies in the quadrat and record it  in a table. Do this nine further times so you've got 10 random quadrat readings for each area.  Calculate the mean number of daisies per quadrat for each area and to get the total population in  the location you can then just multiply that mean by how many square meters there are in the total  area. If you also take some data about the physical environment at the same time, the abartic factors,  then that can help you hypothesize why the populations might be different in location A  and location B. Here's another task. Measure how the distribution of organisms changes across  a woodland path. Now sometimes you want to see how the distribution of a species changes  across a habitat. You may take abartic factor readings as well such as light levels or soil  acidity and then investigate if there's a relationship between those factors and the  distribution of that species. Now in this case another piece of apparatus is needed called a  transect as well as your quadrat. Now a transect is basically a long line. Ideally just use a long  sort of tape measure and instead of just randomly placing your quadrat down like we did last time  with those random coordinates, we're going to place it systematically along that transect.  So then with each quadrat you take along that transect, you could count the number of a  particular species and see how the distribution of that species changes as you move along the  transect. Or you might count the number of different species you can see in each quadrat  and therefore give you a sort of measure of biodiversity. If you're counting something like  grass where you can't count individual organisms then you would do the percentage of the quadrat  covered. And also for each quadrat you then take some of those abartic readings, maybe light  intensity, temperature or soil pH. And once you've got your data then plot a graph of the abartic  factors you're interested in against each quadrat to see if there is a correlation. So here is a  quadrat placed on a rocky shore. Now there are three mussels in this one meter squared quadrat  and the total area of the rocks is 280 meters squared. What would be the estimated population  of mussels on these rocks? Why not pause the video now and take a minute to try and work it out.  Well it's quite simple isn't it? You've got one meter squared here and we know the total area is  280 meters squared so all we've got to do is times 3 by 280 to get our total estimation which is 840  mussels. Here's an evaluation question though. Why is that not a good way of estimating the  population of mussels? Well firstly it's only one quadrat so it's not reliable data. Reliable  data is about how many repeats you do and they've only done one here. Data should be collected from  at least 10 randomly placed quadrats and then the average number of mussels can be calculated per  square meter and then that can be multiplied by 280 for the total area which is going to be a  much more accurate result. 