 Hi, this is your instructor, Craig Pence. I'd like to begin by congratulating you on your decision to take this class.  The Department of Labor ranks accounting and bookkeeping as two occupations that are likely to experience greater than average growth in coming years.  The salary levels in accounting and bookkeeping also compare very favorably to other equivalent occupations.  Not everybody, of course, is going to become a CPA or a bookkeeper, but accounting and a knowledge of accounting is fundamental to the management of any type of operation.  Whether it be a nonprofit organization, a governmental agency, or a business firm, the manager needs to know basic accounting concepts and procedures.  This video is the first of several that I've made for our course.  I've taught accounting for many years, and in the process, I think I've discovered some approaches that are effective in helping you to learn accounting.  By producing these videos, I can share them with you, and in fact, you have one advantage. I don't come equipped with a rewind button in the on-campus classroom.  The goal of these videos and the modules that are written out for you is to make the learning process more effective for you and easier for you, too.  Having said all that, let's now talk about a few concepts that lie at the heart of accounting.  Let's focus on understanding why it is we're going to be doing what we do when we finally get down to the nitty-gritty and begin working accounting problems.  Accounting is viewed as being a pretty complicated area, but it's really at heart quite simple.  The process of doing accounting involves keeping track of only two things, assets and equities.  Since accountants keep track of assets and equities, we need to understand what they are.  Let's look at the definition for assets.  An asset is something that the business owns, and this generally means that the owner of the business holds legal title to the asset.  An asset is something that is needed in order to operate the business, and it's going to provide benefits to the business over a long period of time.  Not just today, but also tomorrow and the day after.  Examples of assets would be things like buildings, furnishings in the building, such as shelving and carpet and desks and chairs and so on.  Equipment, such as cash registers and office computers and adding machines.  Supplies, such as paper and pencils and envelopes that are used in the office and so on.  These are all items that will benefit the business both today and tomorrow.  Now eventually the supplies become used up, and eventually the equipment becomes obsolete or wears away to the point that it can't be used anymore,  and eventually the building wears away and falls down.  But as long as these items can still provide their benefits to the business, then they are assets.  When we say that the owner has to own these items in order to count them as assets, we don't mean that the owner has to have 100% ownership of them.  We only require that the legal title to the asset be in the owner's name.  A $5 million building will probably not be purchased entirely by the owner.  Instead there will be a mortgage on it, and a mortgage lender will have given the business some of the cash that was used to acquire the building.  But the legal title will still be in the owner's name.  There will be a lien against that legal title, and it will represent the creditor's interest in the asset.  The same is true of delivery vans and automobiles.  They're often financed through a business finance company or a bank.  But as long as legal title is in the name of the owner, they still count as a business asset.  Now that was a long and windy discussion, but bear with me when I do things like this.  I think it's better to say too much to you than not enough.  Anyway, if you can recall, we mentioned that there was another thing that accountants keep track of, and that's equity.  Equity just represents ownership.  In the case of the building, the owner would have made a down payment on the building and then borrowed the rest through the mortgage lender.  The owner then has an ownership interest in the building, but so does the creditor, that is, the mortgage lender.  If the building cost $1 million and the owner put down 20%, then the owner has a $200,000 interest in the building.  The creditor has an $800,000 interest in the building.  The same thing is true of auto loans.  When you finance the next car you purchase through the credit union, then you make a down payment,  which means you have ownership interest in the automobile, but the credit union does as well.  You hold legal title to the car, but the credit union is shown on the title as a lien holder.  You would both have equity in the car.  Well, we said that the process of accounting requires us to keep track of the business assets and the equity in those assets.  Let's look at a more concrete example.  Here we have a business and the owner of the business.  The owner of the business is pictured on the right side of the screen here, and the business is represented by the basket.  Let me encourage you to think of the business as a basket.  And right now, the business doesn't exist.  It's only an idea in the mind of the owner.  In order for the business to be started, it has to have assets with which to operate.  And one place that the business can obtain assets is from the owner.  So in order to start up the business, the owner may make a contribution of assets to the business,  things like cash, equipment, buildings, and other types of assets.  When the owner makes a contribution to the business, then there are assets placed in the basket that weren't there previously.  In fact, there was nothing there previously, but now the business has assets.  We as accountants would need to keep track of these business assets.  So to record this transaction, we would need to record an increase in business assets.  And then, since the assets were contributed by the owner,  we'd record an increase in the owner's ownership interest in the assets that are in the business by recording an increase in the owner's equity.  So there now, we've done accounting.  We've accounted for a business transaction.  A transaction is something that causes assets and or equities to change.  There is another way, though, that the company might obtain assets.  A creditor might contribute them to the business instead of the owner.  The most obvious example would be the company goes to the bank and arranges for a loan.  The bank provides cash to the business, and the owner of the business signs a promissory note agreeing to pay back the amount of the loan with interest at some future date.  Or, equipment or a building might be purchased, and a portion of the purchase cost might be financed through a bank loan.  In any event, assets are now going into the basket that weren't there before.  And this time, a creditor has made the contribution to the business, and the creditor, therefore, has the ownership interest in these assets.  To record this transaction in our notebook, we would need to record an increase in assets along with an increase in creditor's equity in the business,  which we refer to as a business liability.  Later, if anyone asks us about the business assets and wants to know what they are, we can always refer back to our notebook and prepare a report from the information that we've recorded there.  And this report would tell the interested party exactly what the business has in assets and exactly who has the ownership interest in those assets.  Now, since assets have to be owned by someone, either the business owner or by creditors,  then whatever we have in assets in the basket has to be equal to the ownership claims of creditors and the business owner against those assets.  Well, this discussion is leading up to a very fundamental fact that underlies all of accounting,  and that is that the assets in the business have to equal the liabilities and the owner equity in the business.  What is in the basket on the left side of the screen has to be owned by some party on the right side of the screen, either a creditor or the owner of the business.  Therefore, assets have to be equal to liabilities plus owner equity.  This basic equation, assets equal liabilities plus owner equity, is called the accounting equation.  And in doing accounting, all we ever do is keep track of what the business assets are and who owns them.  People often refer to accountants as bean counters, but I think you understand now that really accountants are asset and equity counters.  There is another video that I've done that you'll run into later in the module that demonstrates exactly how you'll record these transactions when you do the assigned problems. 