 Welcome to another Wimbledon video on geography skills. Today we're going to  look at climate graphs. What are they and how do we draw them? A climate graph  combines two sets of data. First of all average monthly rainfall and average  monthly temperature. This is set out into one graph called a climate graph which  contains both a bar graph and a line graph. The biggest mistake that students  make when they're trying to create a climate graph is forgetting which graphs  to use for which set of data. I tell my students they only need to remember one  thing. A bar graph looks like rainfall so that's the graph to use. Then for  temperature just use the other graph. Now I've done some research and I've been  unable to find a definitive answer as to whether the temperature or rainfall  should be on the left or the right of the graph. So I'm gonna take the easy way  out and say check with your teacher which one they prefer. For my graph I'll  go rainfall or precipitation on the left and temperature on the right. Now this is  not going to be a perfect looking graph. I've deliberately done it by hand to  show you the whole process. To start you need the data. Usually it'll look  something like this with a table set out with all the months and then average  rainfall and average temperature on the side. I've just thrown in some numbers  there. They don't actually correlate to the graph. It's just an example of what  you'll see. Start with a big square U or if you prefer the top half of rugby  league or rugby goal posts. Then split this up evenly with the 12 months at the  bottom. Then with a ruler set out even spaces for your rainfall and throw up  the numbers on the left hand side. Remember to always include rainfall in  milliliters so that the person reading the graph knows what each number  signifies. Once you've done that grab your ruler and put a dot in the middle  of each month exactly where the average rainfall fell for that month. Then  complete your bar graph. As I said guys I'm not spending a whole bunch of time  making this look pretty. Once you've completed this it's always helpful to  double check that you've got your measurements right with the average  rainfall for that month. Once you've done this on the other side of your graph  set out in equal parts the temperature going up the right hand side. Don't  forget to write out temperature in Celsius so that people know what those  numbers signify. Then once again with your ruler plot out for the middle of  each month where the average temperature fell. Make sure the dot is right in the  middle of each month and exactly equal to where it should be temperature wise.  Then plot it out as a line graph with the dots still being visible. This will  help people to read it. And there is a finished climate graph. As you can see  we've got the rainfall as a bar graph down the bottom and the temperature  average as a line graph at the top. Here's the same graph with the  temperature and rainfall switched around to show you it's pretty much the same  thing. Now that we've created one the question must be asked well what do you  use them for? Well we could use them to see the seasonal changes for rainfall  and temperature or to see different trends as they develop throughout the  year. And we can also use them to compare different climates around the world and  see where they're similar and where they vary. So that's how to create a climate  graph and what they're used for. Any questions comment below and don't forget  to like and subscribe. 