 So I've been getting a lot of requests to cover the topic of options, which is a really  interesting topic and normally something that people don't really say or talk about, but  options have gotten a lot of press recently, particularly with the huge run-ups in stock  price of companies like GameStop and BlackBerry and AMC.  Now we're not necessarily going to get into some of the reasons why that happened, although  there's a lot of literature on that and so you can read up on that on your own, but we  are going to talk about really from a fundamental standpoint what options are at a very basic  level just so you can understand how they work.  Options are a form of a derivative, which is very, very confusing and it's designed  to be, but really they kind of work in a fairly simple fashion and so we're going to walk  through how they function.  So for starters, let's talk about really what options are.  An option in the most simplest sense is a contract and that contract gives us the option  to buy or sell something.  And more specifically though, not just anything, typically in this case we're talking about  a security, right, so a stock of some kind, but it doesn't necessarily have to be a security,  but buying something at a, buy or sell something at a specific price.  Now one important thing that I want to mention is that options give us the option to buy.  So while we have the option to, we never have to exercise our options as it's called.  So that's an important thing is it gives us the ability to, but not the requirement.  So options in a sense, again, are a contract.  So we think about a contract, we think about, you know, like a legal document, right, very  long, written by attorneys, all these different things, but the contract simply gives us the  ability to do something, to buy or to sell.  Now there are a couple different types of options.  The ones that more specifically were used quite a bit or discussed with regards to companies  like GameStop and others are what are called call options or calls.  And the second form of an option are called put options or puts.  Now calls specifically give you the option to buy.  Puts give you the option to sell.  And you can utilize these differently depending upon what your focus is for your portfolio.  And I'll talk about these just very simply.  So we'll talk about puts first very briefly.  So puts give you the option to sell.  So let's say that you purchased a stock.  And you can utilize these a lot of different ways, which makes them very, very complicated.  But really a common way that you utilize them is let's say that you purchased a security  of some kind.  So let's say you've got this stock certificate.  And you are kind of concerned about the future volatility of this stock certificate.  You want to make sure it doesn't go lower than a certain amount.  So this stock certificate or this put option is giving you the option to sell.  And so let's say that you purchased this certificate at some point in time and are just trying  to hedge against a market decline.  So the stock decreasing in value.  So you can purchase a put, which will give you the option to sell.  Let's say that option is $50.  And so that's the point where you can exercise your put.  Now in the event that the stock value goes down, let's say it drops down to within a  trading day, it suddenly maybe at one point is at $55.  And then at some point within a trading period, it drops to $45.  Under normal conditions, if you wanted to get rid of the stock, you would have to realize  this loss.  Especially if you bought it for let's say $60.  I mean it really doesn't matter for the purpose of this example.  But you would have to realize a loss.  Now there might be some advantages to doing that.  You can write that off and that sort of thing, which is great.  But if you have this option, this put, this is going to give you the ability to sell at  the $50.  So you don't really have to, you can still retain some of the earnings that you've generated  or some of the value of the stock from the share price appreciation.  So that's one way that you can do it.  It helps to minimize your losses because I'm establishing a floor, if you will, for how  much money I might lose, which works well, particularly in volatile times, particularly  when you have a stock that you're just not sure is where it's going to go.  Now I'm going to add, if you're interested in holding it for a long period of time, you  don't care about calls and puts.  Because if you're a traditional buy and hold strategy investor, you're just going to purchase  the stock and you're going to hang on to it and you're not going to sell it for a long  period of time.  So you're not worried about all the ups and downs and that sort of thing.  But if you were trading where you're more interested in not necessarily just fundamentals  but also the technicals of what stocks are doing at every point in time, well you might  use a put to hedge against some downturn volatility so that you can still maintain a certain return  on your investment.  That's what you can do.  Now calls work the exact opposite of puts.  So again, puts are more like defense if you're to use a comparison to sports.  So a call though is going to give you the option to buy.  So let's say, let's sell something different.  Let's kind of get out of this whole stock thing since that can be kind of confusing  anyway and let's sell something different.  So let's sell coffee.  I like coffee so that seems like something pretty fun to sell.  And so this is going to be our bag of coffee.  Here's our nice little label and it's got all the information on the notes and you've  got our logo here and this is going to be Matt's Coffee.  I didn't have time to think of a really good name, alright?  Alright, so we're going to sell coffee.  Let's say there's a market for this coffee, right?  Obviously there is.  There's a group of people willing to buy and the normal price for this coffee is $15.  Now you can use a call to acquire something at a lesser price if you think there's going  to be some volatility.  So let's say for example, under normal conditions, you can go and you can buy this coffee for  $15 for a bag and I didn't even specify how much coffee you're getting.  You're only getting 12 ounces so that's important for this.  Not really.  Now let's say that you wanted to purchase a call.  You want the option to buy at a certain point and you're maybe unsure about what's going  to happen with the price.  It's fluctuating and so you're going to purchase a call option and you're going to purchase  a call at $15.  Now you might be thinking this seems like a really dumb idea.  Why would you pay for a call option for the right to buy something at the value that it's  in the market right now?  And that's a very, very good question.  What it would depend upon is what you think the price is going to do.  What's going to happen?  Because it might be that all of a sudden that my coffee is in really big demand and so maybe  my coffee starts going up in price.  It starts moving up and so at some point maybe now it sells for $18.  Well because you purchased the call you still have the right to buy at $15 if you choose  to do so.  And that's where the option comes in because if the value of the coffee goes down, which  is bound to happen if I'm roasting it, then now it's going to be $13.  And you say well I don't want to exercise my call option because I can just buy it cheaper  on the market.  In which case you would.  But now if it moves up to $18, well I can buy it for $15.  I can exercise my option.  Now this is a really simple example but I'm just trying for you to understand the basic  idea is this just works like placing a bet almost.  Now there's a couple of things you've got to keep in mind.  One is you do pay a premium for an option.  So it's not free obviously and I'm sure you've probably already gathered that.  Now that premium is going to be based on a couple things.  It's going to be based upon some of the market factors, based upon the time period, and based  upon the price.  So if you are for example purchasing a call option for lower than $15, you might actually  pay more because the likelihood of being able to exercise it at $14 is greater than $15  and so on and so forth.  So you've got to factor that in.  If it's worth it, you might be paying too big of a premium that the value of it isn't  very significant.  So with the put option, same kind of thing, depending upon the value of the put or what  you're going to exercise it at, then that could affect your premium that you pay.  Also the time frame is something you have to consider.  So we'll say strike price which is the option that you exercise and then your kind of time  frame.  How long is it good for?  Is it for a week, a couple weeks, a couple months?  The longer the period of time, the more of a premium you're going to pay because there's  just a lot more uncertainty between today and whenever that is if you're talking about  insuring something for a month or two.  But those are the variables.  But ultimately at the end of the day, it's actually relatively cheap insurance.  So instead of purchasing this bag of coffee for $15, maybe I just purchase the call option,  the right to buy, and I pay $2.  That's the premium that I pay.  Then if it somehow works out, then I can exercise it and then it actually makes financial sense.  Now take this simple example that I just gave you and then think about how it would relate  in a bigger sense to purchasing stocks.  Instead of paying hundreds of dollars to actually own shares in a company, if I think that they're  going to go up or down and I'm not interested in holding them for a long period of time,  might it actually be better just to purchase the option two?  And then if it actually makes sense, then I can go all in and acquire it and then flip  it if I want, which is really what's happening with a lot of the stocks that you're seeing  is that in a general sense, a lot of hedge funds and different bigger institutional investors  have placed bets that a lot of these stocks are going to be declining in value and they  have for a period of time and the fundamentals of these companies, meaning their profit and  loss and their prospects and those kinds of things don't look great, I must admit.  You've got this group of ordinary investors that are banding together and are beginning  to place bets that it's going to go up in value and then that obviously, if we buy something,  more people buy, then more people sell, that causes the stock to go up in value and that  forces the traders or the hedge funds to then obviously buy as well and that sort of  thing and it causes this huge run up.  But from a simple standpoint, that's really how options work.  You're just giving you the option to buy or sell.  Again, you don't have to utilize it unless you feel like it's advantageous to your position.  So hopefully this was fairly clear and you guys enjoyed it.  If you've got questions, let me know.  I like this topic personally.  So if you'd like to learn more, shoot some questions down in the comments there and then  maybe I'll record and post another video.  Alright, thanks for watching. 