 NEXT  Whether you realize it or not, most of us will have crossed paths with an aeroid at  some point in our lives.  This odd family of plants has nearly conquered the globe and is absent only from the coldest  regions of our planet.  Some have even left their land-loving cousins behind for a fully aquatic habit.  A racie, as it's known to science, is also a family of superlatives.  Aeroids lay claim to both the smallest flowering plant in the world, as well as the largest  unbranched inflorescence.  It is nearly impossible to make generalizations about this family, but that does not detract  from the sense of awe one gets with even the slightest bit of familiarity with these plants.  We are heading to the Missouri Botanical Gardens to explore the largest living collection of  aeroids in the world and meet a couple of people who have fallen in love with these  plants.  Dr. Tom Kroett has spent the last 50 years building up this collection and Emily Coletti  is the horticulturist in charge of keeping them happy and growing.  The combined experience of these two phytophiles is proof of just how special these plants  truly are.  So join us as we explore this incredible living collection of aeroids and learn about the  value living collections like this have for science, horticulture, but most importantly,  conservation.  There were lots of times when it was really quite dangerous, of course.  I mean, when I was in Costa Rica one time, I rolled down the mountain with the road cable  way in.  We rolled seven times down a mountain with my wife and two kids in the car, in the truck.  It was a brand new pickup and it had wings, mirrors sticking out like this.  But surprisingly, when we got to the bottom, even the mirrors weren't broken off.  We were just rolling through trees, vegetation, this sort of young vegetation.  I guess somebody else had rolled off there earlier, perhaps.  So it was just like rolling slowly, seven times until it got to the bottom.  And then it landed on its side with the back end in the river, the front end hanging on  a big stone.  And my wife, we both walked out the window because it was gone.  The front window was missing.  And she was trying to find my son who was missing.  She got into the river, was carried away in the water.  And the next thing I noticed, she was a hundred meters down the river crawling out.  She had broken her arm, but she didn't even realize it.  And then I crawled up on the big stone and my son was actually clear up on the top, way  up at the top.  He had fallen out the window on the first revolution.  So my daughter was kind of banged up because she had made it all the way to the bottom  in this cement mixture.  They never wanted to go back again.  If there was ever a feature that unites aeroids together into a single family, it's the means  by which they present their flowers.  With very few exceptions, aeroids produce what is called an inflorescence.  Now, this structure can look radically different from one species to the next, but the basic  form is recognizable if you know what to look for.  That's the part that is more amazing to me, is that they have a totally different look,  growth habit, and maybe their juvenile stage than they do as an adult.  And sometimes they might have tiny little leaves, and then when they're adult, they're  just huge.  They might be a vine as a juvenile, but as they grow into their adult stage, the inner  nodes shrink and the leaves get bigger, and the shape and the sizes.  That's more amazing to me than anything else, how the same plant just appears so differently  at different times and different stages.  Well, some of them are very, very predictable, and it's fun just to see the predictability  of them.  When I work with them, there's over 200 species of Amorphophallus.  We don't have a lot of species here, but the few species that we have, I've kept records  on them, and on some species, you can just, by the clock, know it's going to flower about  this time of year, about this day.  I've actually had some that actually will start to sprout from the tuber itself.  It comes up like a little triangle, almost to the day, every year, and they're that predictable.  But then you have others, like the Titan Arum, that you have no idea how long it's going  to be dormant.  You have no idea if it's a leaf or a bloom.  You have no idea.  There's no predictability about it at all.  When you see the Philodendrons blooming, their inflorescences, to me, are awesome, as compared  to a lot of the Anthuriums.  They're just kind of there, and they're beautiful in their own way, but the face only a mother  can love.  They're just not that gorgeous of a plant.  A lot of them, the space is just pretty bland.  It's green, and it turns brown, and you just have this pencil sticking up out of the plant.  Then some of the berries turn into these beautiful oranges, and reds, and yellows, and lavenders.  All phases are different, but yeah, they're fun just to see how different they're going  to be, but yet all the same, because they all have the same parts, but they come out  differently.  Well, there's no disadvantage if they're all pollinated, and the pollination systems are  quite remarkable.  Imagine Philodendron.  It opens only just for a few hours.  It opens at night, or almost at night.  It opens at dusk.  It produces this pheromone, which is quite strong.  The beetles that visit it can smell this for 200 yards, maybe.  Then they simply, they're kind of half blind, they simply fly along keeping that vector  in their, it's like radar, you just get on the scene and off the scene.  Then they eventually find the plant by the olfactory sense, but then when they get close,  they're usually white, and they kind of crash land on the space, fall down inside.  Then when they, they spend the whole night in there.  Of course, they're there for sex, because they aggregate there, but the point is that  they get all these flowers pollinated, and then the thing starts squeezing in on them,  and then the next day, the next night they leave.  They never fly in the daytime, because the birds pick them off, so this is why birds  have very low vision at night, or when it gets at least a bit dark, whereas the beetles,  they thrive at that time.  Somorpha phallus cutaneous here is showing us the basic form of an aeroid inflorescence.  It's not a single flower, but many packed into one single package.  All of them are generally covered by a leafy space, and have all of their flowers clustered  onto this large column-like structure here called the spadix.  In this species, we see the female flowers are near the base, the male flowers are up  here at the top, and the rest of this is a starchy structure, which sometimes can generate  heat.  In the case of this species, like its larger cousin, the titanarum, it's producing a lot  of roadkill-like smells, but that attracts its pollinators, and we're going to see a  lot of variations on this theme here today.  I love this philodendron inflorescence.  It's so fleshy, so well-protected structurally.  It feels like this is probably a species growing up in the canopy, getting buffeted around  by wind and storms, and maybe even chewed on by a monkey or two.  It's a really interesting structure, and you can tell there's a lot of color variation  among these plants.  It's so gorgeous.  So what you can see here is that not all aeroids cluster their flowers at the base of the spadix.  Some display them all along the structure itself, and that changes the way in which  they're pollinated.  Instead of beetles getting stuck at the base, insects can crawl all along the structure,  maybe collecting scent, maybe collecting nectar, but it just goes to show you the breadth of  the variation on this theme that is present within this amazing plant family.  It's one thing to produce flowers in many different shapes, sizes, colors, and even  smells, but flowering plants like aeroids must complete the reproductive life cycle  by getting their seeds out into the environment.  For most aeroids, this involves fruits.  You know, I have a feeling that for some reason they have a lot of endemic species.  Probably more than any family I know, there is a high rate of endemism, and this high  rate of endemism means that the plants are isolated, because endemics are isolated.  Why are they isolated?  I think they're isolated because their fruits are bird dispersed, and they occur only in  the forest.  Migratory birds don't go into the forest, so they're not carrying seeds from country  to country or from place to place.  The territorial birds that are dispersing the seeds are not moving.  Ant wrens, for example, on Barrow, Colorado, while the fellow who studied them, Ed Willis,  ten years in a row, these same pair of ant wrens were sitting in the same bush, always  in the same place, and they were territorial.  They were keeping the other birds out.  So if a species became distinct for the mutation in a spot, it might remain there for hundreds  of years, and therefore it could create a great big population of plants in situ, and  then not be dispersed to the next hill.  Cerro Jefe in Panama, for example, we're still finding endemic species only known from Cerro Jefe,  and this is after 50 years of collecting there, and there's almost nothing left, but we're  still finding, even in these fragments, we're still finding new species.  Lots of new species are being discovered in the most beat up places imaginable.  Now like all angiosperms, pollination is followed by fruit production, and in the case  of aeroids, a vast majority of them are producing berries, like we see here in this aglaonema.  This one in particular is bright red and fleshy, which means it's probably dispersed by birds,  but there's a lot of variations on this theme, and this one is just a tip of that iceberg.  So because some aeroids produce their flowers all along the spadix, the berries are produced  all along the spadix.  Now I don't know how much of a difference that makes for seed dispersal, but it certainly  makes for an entertaining and interesting structure to look at.  It is quite amazing when you walk by some of the philodendrons that have leaves that  are three foot, and you know they're bigger than that, or when the Amorphophallus titanum  actually blooms, that we've been fortunate enough to have nine of them bloom in the last  six years.  When you see just the size, it does amaze you.  Like you said, they all have a space, and they all have a spadix, but the diversity,  the colors, the shapes, the sizes are just amazing.  Well there are some definite favors.  The two that I would like to mention are both philodendrons.  One is a species that I really want to describe, the moment I saw it, it had a long pendant  leaf with a wrinkled surface and even pale veins.  It was just an astonishingly beautiful plant, but it was sterile, and we kept trying to  find fertile material.  I finally found one with buds, it was not really appropriate for our type, but I was  deciding to name it, I think I was going to call it Splendidum.  Over the years, 20 years later, somebody had already used that name, so I decided to name  the plant after my wife.  So it's Philodendron patricii, and that species I saw recently in Ecuador.  It had been imported into Ecuador and was growing there.  Massive leaf, almost two meters long, it's still a beautiful plant, even though the plant  I recollect was only less than a meter long.  So if you get it in the good conditions, it will grow really nicely.  The other really neat plant that I collected years ago was a thing called Philodendron  fortunense.  It had a beautiful round chordate blade, which was attractive in itself, it was white on  the lower side, but it had a beautiful ruffled petiole.  The petiole had little ruffles in it.  And yet there's yet another one, Philodendron alady petiolatum, that's another one that  has a gorgeous petiole.  The petiole is widely winged with a very undulated surface.  And the leaf is also very beautiful.  I could go on and on with pretty plants.  But the Philodendrons, I don't work on them as much as I do Anthurium, because there are  a lot fewer of them.  But they often make the best cultivated plants.  They're not so much affected by the drought conditions.  Anthuriums often get this little yellow margin.  It's not Xanthomonas bacteria, it's just an injury.  And then it starts yellowing from the margin.  And that yellow can continue on because it's no longer got any protection.  So they have a lot more problems.  Philodendrons seem to never have any of those cultural problems.  They grow slowly, they don't flower very often, but they always remain beautiful in your collection.  Leaves are some of the most obvious features of any plant.  After all, they're the main photosynthetic organs.  Their ability to capture sunlight and CO2 and turn that into food is famous the world  over.  Despite the fact that leaves largely serve the same purpose for all plants, there is  a bewildering amount of variety from one species to the next, and Aeroids are no exception.  From this relatively small sample of Aeroid leaf variation, we can begin to understand  just how much the physical environment shapes these plants.  As we will learn, leaves can tell you a lot about how each species makes a living.  Now I think one of the most incredible aspects of the Aeroid family is the diversity in size,  color, and texture of leaves.  We have large, strap-like leaves that are taller than I am.  We have these nice, narrow, thin, leathery leaves.  We have large palmate leaves, and we also have beautiful heart-shaped leaves.  And all of their sizes, textures, and colors tell you something about the environments  in which they hail from.  Now another common theme among Aeroid leaves is this wonderful variegation, and it's something  plant breeders have taken advantage of throughout time.  And there's a few hypotheses why this might happen in nature.  One is that it could potentially protect the leaves from damaging sunflex as they're growing  in the dense shade of the understory.  Those little sunflex can be really intense, and these areas actually lack chlorophyll.  Another idea is that this could actually be a form of camouflage.  The modeling breaks up the outline of the leaf and makes it less apparent to pollinators.  Regardless of why it's happening, it's a beautiful thing that is really lovely to have in a house.  Like I said, there is a lot of variation in Aeroid leaves, and one of the common themes  you'll see again is this dissection, like we see with this Anthurium species here.  And this is all about surface area.  Leaves are trying to absorb as much light as they possibly can, and trying not to invest  as much energy as they have to in building the actual leaf itself.  So by making dissected leaves over solid, non-broken leaves, the plant gets more surface  area for less investment.  Now I think the Amorphophallus have taken the leaf game to its extreme, because each  one of these structures, from the base of the stem to the tip of these leaflets, is  a single leaf.  And there's an insane amount of variety and size of this.  There's species that are about this tall, all the way up to the Titanarum itself.  It's amazing to think that this is one single leaf.  So I think of all of the Aeroid leaves out there, Amorphophallus sororis has to have  one of my favorites.  It's got this nice dark green color, but if you look right on the rim of every little  leaflet here, is this beautiful pink outline.  I have no idea what function it serves, but it is certainly one of the most stunning of  all the Aeroids.  So here we see one of the most charismatic of all the Aeroid leaves, the so-called Swiss  cheese plant, because of these holes.  And this is a phenomenon called fenestration.  And again, like we saw with the dissected leaves, this is all about surface area.  By producing leaves with holes in them, they don't have to produce a solid surface.  Instead, they can stretch out their photosynthetic surface over a much greater area and take  advantage of what light's available in the canopy.  It is also possible that dissected leaves like these can help the plant regulate temperature.  This is especially important up in the canopy when exposed to high light conditions.  All of that extra surface area may help these plants shed heat a lot more efficiently.  The majority of my collections have been made in neotropical areas.  The richest area, unquestionably, is the Chocoan Refugium.  This area, you could literally go there endlessly and you'd continue to find new species.  You could just drive down the road another kilometer, get out of the truck, and you find  another population of species that weren't like the ones you saw before.  I'm always amazed how many species are aggregated in one spot, and you go there and you collect  all of them, and maybe you know three of them, which is really discouraging after 50 years  of working on air AC.  Then you go down the road another few kilometers, and you find another group of species.  Of course, some of them are the same, but not all of them.  In Nariño, I remember working at La Planada, which is high for aeroids at 1,500 to 1,700  meters, even up to 1,900 meters.  There I only had 55 species of air AC.  From there I could see the Rio Imbe.  You could literally see it.  If you had a gun, you could shoot right to the bank of the river.  That was 700 meters lower, and it had a completely different flora.  Then at the same time, I went 37 kilometers down the road to Alta Cera, to a place called  Rio Niambe, and I didn't recognize anything in the Rio Niambe.  That was at the Rio Imbe, only 37 kilometers away, also in pre-montane rain forest, pre-montane  wet forest.  They were the same kind of forest, same elevation, and yet that short distance made a big difference  in the species composition of that area.  It turns out some of them are the same, but my first impression was these are all different  species.  I would say that aeroids, in general, less is more, and the containers that you grow  them in is something you want to keep to the size of the root system.  You put it in the smallest pot that you can possibly put it in.  It doesn't like a lot of room.  A lot of them are epiphytes.  They don't need that soil anyway, so if you put them in too much soil, the roots tend  to rot back, so you might as well just, I don't want to say cram it in a pot, but put  it in the smallest pot that you can comfortably put it in because it will thank you for it.  So just as the leaves of an aeroid can tell you something about its lifestyle, so too  can its roots.  Here we see the aerial roots of Philodendron williamsii, and it's a vining species that's  more at home up in the canopy, but there's not a lot of nutrients up there, so it sends  these large woody roots down to find more nutrients into the soil.  And as you'll see today, there's so many variations on roots that it's almost just as fun to study  them as it is the rest of the plant itself.  Check out the roots on this Anthurium plowmanii.  This is another species you're more likely to find in the canopy than on the ground,  and one of the cool things about these roots is that they form these spongy-like coating  on the outside of the root, which actually acts like a sponge.  Any water that hits this is instantly soaked up, so it can take advantage of any time the  rain comes down, because up in the canopy, you dry out a lot quicker than you do down  on the ground in the rainforest.  Another really cool thing to notice here is the fact that many of these roots actually  are pointing upwards.  They're going against gravity, which may seem weird for roots, but a lot of Anthurium species  and other aeroids in general are litter trappers.  They actually collect leaves and debris around them, which helps them form their own soil.  Because again, the canopy is such a harsh place to live, there's not a lot of nutrients  up there, and by producing their own soil-like environment, they can live a lot longer and  do a lot better.  I mean, look at the size of this thing.  It's pretty remarkable.  Now, of course, not all aeroids live in the trees.  Species like these Anchomanes here, they live in the ground, and they produce a different  kind of rooting structure.  Many of them will produce fibrous roots that get into the soil, but as you can see here,  a lot produce storage units called corms or tubers, and these help plants get through  the dormant season.  After they come back out of dormancy, they'll start to sprout here and then throw up their  leaves.  But it just goes to show you there's a wide variety of lifestyles within the aeroid family.  In the 50 years that I've been working in the field of botany, 56 actually, but all  this time, nearly every year I've been to the tropics, I've been down there seeing this  forest go away.  It's not just our imagination.  You can look at a map and you can see that there's still forest there, but if you go  back a few years, there was even a lot more forest.  So it's constantly being cut off.  Every place there is road, they're cutting the forest off.  It may not be immediate, but within a few years, it'll all be gone.  So when they build a new road, it means the forest is gone.  If you don't get there exactly when they build the road or before they build the road,  you're not going to get anything.  So they build the road and within months, the trees are all gone as far as you can see.  They're growing either oil palm in the lowlands or they're growing this Naranjillo up in the  highlands or they're growing cacao in the lowlands.  They're always cutting it off for some purpose and it doesn't last very long until the soils  have become depleted and they have to abandon it.  Now when they abandon it, it regrows, but it just regrows in secondary growth, especially  if they burned it.  So there's nothing there.  There's no seeds left.  There are no sprouts, no seedlings or anything to regrow the forest.  So generally it just ends up being a trash pile of weeds and grass and they try to raise  cattle on it, but there's very little nutrients in the soil, so there's very little nutrients  in the grass.  Cows have to have hundreds of acres of ground to get the proper nutrients.  It's not like in Iowa where we grew cows.  We could have 35 cows on 13 acres or something, but down there you'd have only one cow on  that 13 acres.  That's about all you could get.  Hard to swallow.  So in thinking about that, this is I think the largest living collection of aeroids in  the world.  Why are living collections so important in the context of conservation?  Well, if we can bring them out alive and especially if we can propagate and disperse them, it's  foolish to bring them out, put them in your collection and hope that they survive because  everybody loses things.  The best approach would be to everybody propagate as much as possible and to send it to as many  people as possible, including ordinary horticulturists who are not affiliated with botanical institutions  because they often have the time to take care of these plants better than the big institutions  where they have few people to take care of massive collections.  So it's really good to get these plants into the hands of hundreds of people because that's  the way of ensuring their survival.  And of course now it's impossible to bring the plants back, so they're just doomed.  They're going to all go extinct.  There's no way that we can save them because the forests are going to go.  And it's difficult because of regulation and red tape.  Well, they think they're saving them by passing laws, but in fact they're ensuring their destruction  because the laws are not going to prevent people from cutting the forest down.  It's easier to get a permit to cut off a thousand acres of trees to grow oil palms than it is  for me to get a permit to collect one sample of a dried specimen.  I'm not even asking for a specimen, a living specimen, which is impossible.  So these areas are just being decimated through government action in many cases.  And they'll set aside a park and so forth, but when you go there, you see it's just being  cut off anyway.  For example, in the Lita San Lorenzo region, one of the richest areas in Ecuador, it is  the richest area in Ecuador, they decided that they'd let the people cut off one kilometer  from the road.  Well, that was where the richest part of the forest was, where the road was, just by chance.  It was where all the good species are.  So one kilometer back, and then one kilometer back, you can't see that far.  So nobody's going to go back beyond that to see whether they're cutting the forest off  anyway.  So once they get a kilometer, do you think they'll stop there?  No, they just keep on going.  So there are very few people to control these aspects, you know, and they usually prefer  sitting at a desk in an office in an air-conditioned area rather than being out in the field, you  know, inspecting for plant loggers and cutters and so forth.  There's attempts to stop it, but it's not being stopped, that's the problem. 