 As we were documenting the entire industry in Sri Lanka, including jewelry manufacturing  and retail, we visited a traditional jewelry manufacturer.  This was on the famous street, C Street, which is a hub for retail and manufacturing in Sri  Lanka.  It was in a very small building and very classic of what's going on on C Street for  traditional 22-carat gold jewelry manufacturing.  The jewelers were sitting right next to each other using a variety of hand fabrication  techniques that have been going on for decades and centuries in Sri Lanka, hammering and  forming gold with hand tools.  It was really quite an experience and it was very hot inside this little factory with  the combinations of heating that was going on to melt the gold and just the heat of Sri  Lanka in general.  The factory itself was quite warm for people that were not used to it.  Here you can see the use of charcoal and basically hand-powered air blower to create heat to  preheat this tray where molten gold will be poured into, but they also use the same  technique to melt gold and to anneal gold.  They've used this for centuries.  This was really amazing to watch this charcoal furnace, if you will, for all their heating  and melting purposes in conjunction with electric furnaces that we saw used earlier.  This was really an amazing combination in traditional jewelry making to see old techniques  used right side by side with new techniques.  Now watch this jeweler as he burnishes this 22-carat gold to put a polish on it.  And I love the use of a lighter also to apply heat.  So all types of tools were used in this manufacturing process.  Look at the speed of which this gentleman is forming these links.  How fast he's using that hammer to hand-form these links that will be used in a chain.  Many of the jewelers were using jeweler torches in the application of heat and of course pliers  in forming the links.  So he's annealing these links that are going to be formed and then he's attaching them  by pliers onto the chain.  Piercing and the use of saws was going on throughout the factory and is of course a  classic traditional hand fabrication technique for jewelry.  Many of the jewelers were not wearing a shirt due to the heat of the factory.  I like the ergonomics of this particular jeweler with his foot propped up.  Many of them just sat in the classic leg cross position.  Now even though jeweler torches were available, this particular jeweler still preferred the  hand-blown torch.  And it was amazing the accuracy and the skill he had to direct the flame right to the area  where he wanted to melt the solder.  He had complete control of the flame on the jewelry.  Take an overall look at this factory.  Now the men with no shirts because it was so hot in there, sitting on the floor, legs  crossed and performing this hand fabrication with one area with a little bit more of a  modern mechanized apparatus and that was to roll out the gold, roll the wire and roll  the sheet metal.  There were literally hundreds of these small shops on Seaspoon. 