 Hi guys, welcome back to the channel, and if you're new here, I'm Liam, a Cambridge  graduate and current London law student, and very excitingly, this is my first ever study  with me video.  I'm just about to start law school again, so I'll take you through a morning spent  getting ready for that, focusing on how I take lecture notes.  It's 23rd of December and I get up at around 8.45, which is way later than I'd usually  let myself get up, I usually get up around 7, but I was studying and working on my new  website until around midnight on the 22nd, so I decided to let myself have a bit of a  line.  My desk was seriously messy from last night and my OCD was struggling to cope, so I decided  to have a quick tidy up and then got changed out of my pyjamas into some jeans.  I begin my day with a large glass of water, down it fresh up, and a healthy face splashing,  and head downstairs.  I usually have a bowl of fruit, yoghurt and a little cereal, shreddies, and I'll often  eat this while I'm getting to work, however at the moment I'm actually trying out intermittent  fasting, channelling my inner zen, where I can only eat for a measly 8 hours of the day  between 12 and 8 for a future video, so coffee and water it is.  I spend around 20 minutes going through messages and chilling on my phone, and after a wee dose  of procrastination, I sit down to work at around 10.30.  It's a Saturday, but on weekdays I'd normally start at around 8.30.  I'm going to be walking you through the process I use to take lecture notes from my  online law lectures, however I used exactly the same method at Cambridge when none of  my lecture materials were online, so it applies to both online and offline lectures.  I head to my virtual learning environment and open up the relevant lecture, lecture  notes and lecture slides.  On my 27 inch screen, it's fairly easy to have the lecture slides, lecture notes  and my notes in front of me at once.  I got this screen for about £120 a year ago, and I wish I'd bought one years ago.  I'd say for the health of your back and neck, and for all round usefulness, it's  a must have for all students.  After a quick sip of coffee, I first of all familiarise myself with the format of the  handout, the slides or the notes that we've been given to accompany the lecture.  But I don't copy anything from the slides across into my notes until after the lecture  to avoid wasting time copying stuff I don't actually end up needing.  If you're lucky, you'll be given digital copies of the handouts or lecture slides so  that you can easily copy and paste, but quite a few of my Cambridge lecturers are still  using physical copies of their handouts.  It may be 2019, but that doesn't stop them doing it the way they've been doing it for  the last 30 years.  Because I hand wrote my lecture notes at Cambridge, to save time during the lecture when I was  scribbling as fast as my hand could physically move, I'd annotate on my notes where I'd  want to insert something from the handout or slide, and then I'd go away and insert  it later into my notes when typing up my notes after the lecture.  This year I've decided to move on from the slightly antiquated Microsoft Word, and upgrade  to the only marginally less ancient middle-aged Microsoft OneNote.  The first thing I always do before attending a lecture, or reading through lecture notes  in full, is to build a topic skeleton from the handout or the lecture slides or notes,  if possible.  This means that I'll skim-read through the notes or the lecture slides before the lecture,  and create an outline of the topic I'm going to be making notes about.  I number each of the sections to give the notes a clear structure, and because when  I come to memorise the notes later, I find it easier to think, oh yeah, I remember here  there were four sub-ideas, and I'll then go through and simply identify each one in order.  Having a topic skeleton helps with my overall understanding of the topic, because I'm able  to visualise how each of the different sub-topics fit together.  It also prevents a situation where, having gone straight into making notes, I spend ages  trying to get to grips with a section of the topic, when in fact this will be explained  or elaborated on later in the lecture or the notes coverage of the topic.  It took me around 45 minutes until about 11.15 to complete a topic skeleton for these notes,  because there are around 180 pages of notes to get through in this introductory lecture  note pack.  However, with a standard 30 pages of notes, or a one hour lecture, it would normally take  me between 10 and 15 minutes a day.  At this stage you want to begin to condense what the lecturer and the lecture notes say  into short note form bullet points.  The key here is that rather than writing down every single word the lecturer says, you're  actually computing and trying to understand what he or she is saying, and then writing  down the key ideas in a hierarchical bullet pointed list.  That means that when a lecturer says something, or something appears on the lecture slides  or in the lecture notes, you have to work out what the most important parts are, process  and understand that information, and then write down the key ideas.  So many people in my law lectures at university would write down every single word the lecturer  said and then would have to go away after the lecture and work out what were the really  important bits.  I'd recommend trying to do this initially in the lecture if you can.  You also want to make sure that your list is hierarchical.  This means having different levels of bullet points and then sub-bullet points within your  top level bullet points, each with different levels of indentation.  Second, if you're going to a live lecture, maybe give handwriting the lecture notes a  go to see how you get on.  This is how I worked throughout my time at Cambridge, principally because I found that  the fact that I could only physically write some of what the lecturer was saying forced  me to focus on the key pieces of information that were being said, requiring that I fully  understand and process what was being said, rather than just mechanistically and thoughtlessly  typing every single word the lecturer was saying.  The next step I'd say to having perfect notes is to help yourself later by properly  titling the sections of your notes and underlining or making bold key words so that it's easy  to identify different sections of the notes later when you come to review them.  Next I have a couple of little tips and tricks that I want to share that I find really helpful  when I watch or attend the lecture.  Whenever I spot a link between two different things that the lecturer has said, I'll add  a number in brackets, so here I'm using the number 1 because this is the first link  that I've spotted, and a colour, so here blue, and I'll colour code the two different  parts of the notes so that later on it's very easy to spot that there is a link between  these two sections and I can easily come back and put those sections together or work out  how in an essay I might use the two sections in conjunction with one another.  I'll add a couple of asterisks into my notes, anywhere that I find points that I want to  look into myself or that I want to expand upon or where I've read something similar  that I think will tie in nicely, and I'll similarly use a question mark anywhere I want  to look into something that I don't fully understand or that I want to ask about in  a tutorial or seminar.  It took me around an hour and a half until 12.45 to get through the first section of  these notes.  At that point, as it's the weekend before Christmas, my girlfriend Beth came over to  see my family.  Hi!  Hi!  Hi!  So I decided to have a quick catch up with her and my mum and then make myself a sandwich.  A toasted turkey sandwich with mayo, salad and tomatoes.  I'm a big believer in making good sandwiches, so I probably faff around the kitchen for  about 20 minutes making this.  My cousins pop over for an unexpected visit and they are way too cute not to play with  so I drop studying for a good hour so that I'm able to play with them.  I've really been trying to refocus a little around what truly matters, friends and family,  and to be more open to making sacrifices in my academic and professional life to see people.  I have a few last bits of Christmas shopping I need to get done before the shop's shut  as it's the 23rd of December.  Oops!  So, after a little Christmas sing song in the car, we get to perhaps the most beautiful  shop I've ever been in and I manage to find the perfect Christmas present for my mum and  then we head back to Beth's to get back to work for another hour or so.  At this stage before I move on to the next topic, I review and grapple to understand  any issues that came up in the lecture or the lecture notes.  I'll do a more detailed video on how I grapple with difficult topics in the future but to  give you a quick idea, I really want to stress that once I've gone through everything in  the lecture once, I'll usually spend quite some time, perhaps a few hours, grappling  with the areas I didn't fully understand.  In general, much to the disdain of academics, I'll probably first head over to Wikipedia  for a quick summary of the topic as I find that things are often explained there in simple  terms, helping me get to grips with the basic principles underlying the topic, avoiding  complex jargon.  Once I've done that, I really do believe that there is no substitute or hack that can  replace considerable amounts of time spent explaining things to yourself.  I often try to do so in the simplest terms possible and I will often do so by applying  the logic of the concept to a specific problem.  So for example when considering Newton's first law of motion, I might think about what  happens to a rock when I throw it on earth and why it slows down and eventually falls  to the earth, and then imagine what would happen if I were instead in space.  You should understand the topic in enough depth and with enough clarity that you feel  you could explain it to a 5 year old.  If you answer the question, could I explain this to a 5 year old, no, you've not been  grappling with it for long enough.  If I'm really struggling with a topic, I also find it helpful to draw diagrams, linking  different ideas together and trying to draw out the system or the different elements of  the concept linking into one another.  I find that having a pictorial representation of the concept so that I can really visualise  what's going on helps me massively.  And finally, if I really cannot get to grips with a topic after a considerable amount of  time, I'll move on and make sure to ask about it in my next class or tutorial.  After about an hour and a half, Beth's family arrive home and I spend the rest of the evening  watching Christmasy TV, making mince pies and cuddling Winston.  Before the end of this video, I just want to really quickly recap the key takeaways  that you should start implementing when making lecture notes yourself.  Before going to the lecture, create a topic skeleton from the lecture slides or handout  to familiarise yourself with the topic.  Then when in the lecture, condense what is said into bullet points, using sub-bullet  points to give ideas a hierarchical structure that is easier to remember.  Focus on extracting key information said by the lecturer rather than writing every single  word and try to make keywords bold as you go along.  Finally, grapple with tricky topics after the lecture, explaining things to yourself  and drawing diagrams.  And remember my top tips, first spend £100-£150 on an external monitor to avoid hunching  over your laptop.  When making your notes, add a number and a colour to link different sections of your  notes together.  Use asterisks and question marks to pinpoint areas you want to explore further.  And finally, improve your understanding by applying logic to specific examples you can  explain to yourself.  Thanks so much for watching and please do comment if there are any topics you'd particularly  like me to make videos about in the future.  Give this video a quick like and then subscribe to my channel.  Speak again soon! 