 Two variables results in four possible combinations. Let's have a look at A and B below and here  are all the possible combinations here. If we look at these two we can see that they  represent not A, these two represent A, these two will obviously represent not B and these  two here represent B. These combinations can be represented on a map. There are four combinations  so the map will need four areas. So we need to draw four areas as you can see here. Two  of the squares will be for not A, two of the squares will be for A, we'll have two squares  for the not B and we will also have two squares for the B. This square is in the not A as  well as being in the not B so this square is known as not A and not B. This square here,  well that one is also in the not A but this time it's in the B so that's known as not  A and B. This square here is in the A and the not B so that's known as A and not B.  And the final square which is this one here, well that one is in the A as well as being  in the B so that's A and B. Each area of the map, or squares if you prefer, is used to  represent each of the minterms as you can see here. We will now plot the following on  a two variable Karnaugh map, i.e. this expression here. And this is the Karnaugh map already  pre-drawn. We'll start by plotting this minterm. Here we can see we've got not A which corresponds  to this which is those two squares I've drawn a line through. Then we look at the B which  is here and I'll draw a line through there and we can see that's where they intersect  so that's where we place a 1. We will now move on to this minterm here and we can see  that we have an A and I'll select that on the map and this time I'm just going to put  a couple of ticks in the A squares. Here we can see we have the not B which is this one  here and I'll put a couple of ticks in those. Now we can see quite clearly there's two ticks  here so that's where they obviously must intersect and that's where we place a 1. We now have  a look at this minterm A and B which is the A and the B and that's obviously this shaded  area here. Consequently it's in that shaded area where we place the 1. If we now look  closely we can see we had three minterms here. Therefore we're going to have three plots  and that's quite clearly shown we have the three plots as you can see there. Once plotted  we then start to minimize by looping ones as you can see here with both the red and  the blue loops. Let's look at a loop in isolation and if we have a look at this little bit we  can see that's in not B and this little bit of the loop is in B. That means we can discount  them. If I have a look at the not A we can see none of the loop is in not A so we discount  not A. Now all of the loop we can see clearly is in A. Therefore this loop represents A.  Let's look at the other loop in isolation. Let's have a look at this bit of the loop  and we can see that's in the not A and the other bit of the loop here is in the A. Now  when it overlaps the same variable like this we discount it. Have a look at the not B and  we can see none of the loop is in not B so we discount that one. Now if we look very  carefully we can see all of the loop is quite clearly in the area of B. Consequently this  loop is therefore B. So we can see therefore that the red loop is A and the blue loop is  B. Therefore we can conclude that F is loop A or loop B. Consequently we can come up here  and see that this minimizes to A or B. 