 This video is gonna be epic. Chock full of conversions, sculpting, custom stencils,  hacking up jigsaw blades, decals, oil washes, and yes, even painting. Grab some  popcorn at Dr. Pepper, sit back, and enjoy the show.  Commissions, the lifeblood of miniature painters heartily fund around the world.  It always begins with the best of intentions, but greed and naivety poison the well soon after.  How quickly the backlog grows with the dreams of others while reality sets in.  Time fades into oblivion, leaving nothing but regret and gloom.  But not all is lost. Hobbyists can find their strength, reclaim the trust they  once lost, like the fire of passion and motivation, once more and one by one, the  commissions are finished.  Freedom from the prison of guilt is in sight, but there is one more beast to slay.  Something still lurks in the closet of hobby shame. Something massive. Something evil.  A hulking metal construct with a corrupted spirit. A representation that humanity's finest  achievements can be tainted by chaos. A Renegade Knight.  Well, as the Scariett narrator lady said, today we're gonna be working on a  Renegade Knight. I'll be taking the standard kit and converting it. You might  ask why I'm doing this, given that a stock Renegade kit is available for  purchase, and the answer is that I took this commission when that kit didn't  exist. I'll let you do the math on that one. This is my last commission I have  remaining, so let's crush it.  So if you weren't aware, a knight is a very large model with many pieces.  Because of this, even a simple step like cleaning and assembling the model can  take a decently long time. Just like on smaller miniatures, we're clipping away  various parts off of the sprue, shaving away extra sprue bits, removing mold  lines, filling gaps, drilling holes in otherwise solid gun barrels, and gluing  together some parts with plastic glue. I've done each of these hobby steps in  many other videos, so if you'd like more context, I'll link some videos in the  description that go over these steps in more detail. I'll be keeping the majority  of this model in pieces, which will make painting it significantly easier. To  handle each of the individual pieces, I took a page out of the scale modeling  handbook and cut lengths of bamboo skewers, adhered each part to my  makeshift handle with poster tack, and then stabbed it into some kaizen foam.  Some comments about this. I'd probably prefer to use double-sided tape instead  of poster tack because I always hate dealing with it. It sometimes fails, can  be hard to remove from the part, it reacts with certain liquids, etc. Also, I  only use kaizen foam because that's what I had laying around. Normally, you'd see  scale modelers using a cat scratch board. Now, the person who commissioned this  model wanted me to magnetize the weapons so he could swap them out whenever he  fancied, so I had to do some magnetization. I tried a bunch of  different ideas to get this to work. I tried hiding the magnets inside the  weapons so you could slot them in and out. I tried backfilling the weapons with  little cute styrene discs so I could glue magnets in and then surround them  with epoxy sculpt, but in the end they were just too weak, causing the weapons  to droop, and also making me scared that at any point they could fall and  shatter into a million pieces. That probably wouldn't happen, but you never  know. What worked in the end was drilling a 10 millimeter hole in the arms and  gluing in a neodymium magnet flush with the surface that was also 10 millimeter.  Then, I cut off some of the arm bits and replaced them with a piece of brass and  a magnet glued together with super glue. Once painted, this just looks like  another robotic arm part and it's sufficiently strong to hold the weight  of the weapons. Of the various approaches that I tried, this was the simplest and  also the best. Side note, if you want to replicate my process entirely, make sure  your power goes out in the middle of the day, forcing you to be out in the sun  hobbying. Ah, I'm melting! Alright, that's all for assembly. Now, on to the conversions.  We'll start with the simpler conversions and get more complicated as we go along.  The guy who commissioned this wanted the model to have some bullet holes scattered  across the armor, so I took my Dremel and drilled some holes in the armor, making  sure to vary the size of the drill bit to simulate damage from different  projectiles. I then took my X-Acto knife and beveled the edges of some holes a  little bit, like a chunk of the armor was removed when the impact occurred. With  the same rotary tool, I used a bowl burr tip to create some rough surface texture  where maybe some weapons didn't punch all the way through the armor. Sometimes,  when doing this, little plastic shavings kind of gunk up all the conversions, and  I deal with that by just applying some Tamiya extra-thin plastic cement to the  shavings. It melts them right off, leaving a nice clean effect. This is a helpful  tip that I picked up from Plasmo, a great scale model YouTuber. I tried to be  reserved about how much of this weathering I did. This machine is old and  war-torn, but I didn't want it to dominate the entire model. Just like salt  in food, you got a season to taste. At several points, I was inspired by the  actual Renegade Knight kits. I made several conversions to match, like these  spiky triangles on the armor trim. With an X-Acto knife, I scuffed up the surface  where I had planned to add the little trim detail. This gave the surface some  tooth for the epoxy sculpt to adhere to, which I sculpted with various metal  tools and silicone shapers until I got a vaguely triangle-like shape. I made sure  this was vaguely flush with the surface, but also after it cured, I sanded it down  so it was nice and seamless. Still being inspired by the stock Renegade kit, I  also added a lot of pokey bits to the main hull, like this staff from my  Blackstone Fortress game, or various spears or track pins. I wanted a variety  of width and length. Alright, now on to the main weapons. For the big beady fist,  I wrapped two types of chains around the knuckles and secured them in place with  super glue thin, a technique that I'll show later with footage that doesn't  look like total trash. I also glued some little skulls onto the ends of the  chains, but again, this footage is pretty garbage. For the big buzzsaw blade, I was  inspired by another Renegade knight by Monstroys, who used an actual jigsaw  blade. I grabbed one of my used jigsaw blades and cut it down to size using a  metal cutting disc and my rotary tool. At first, I didn't really know how to  approach it, apparently. Off-camera, I also filed down the teeth of the blade  to make it dull, but not too dull, because I like my commissions to have some kind  of liability. Don't tell my wife that I said that. I then used styrene to create  a housing for it, complete with trim around the edges. I was trying to make it  fit in with the other saw in terms of design so it looked normal and like it  belonged. Once all the trim had been glued to the saw housing, I scraped and  sanded the trim so it meshed with the rest of my conversion, and that was the  saw weapon sorted. Sorted? British vocabulary is rubbing off on me after  watching four seasons of Love Island. I swear, it's my wife's idea. Taking a break  from weapons for a hot minute, let's make a robot loincloth. All the knights  have banners that hang very awkwardly in between their legs. All I'm reminded of  when seeing these banners are the AT-ATs on Hoth getting tripped up. I instead  added the banner, flag, loincloth, kilt, whatever it is, higher up on the model  around the waist. You know, like a normal person might do. I started by making the  holes around the waist larger so I could attach some chain to them. Normally, I  just super glue stuff like this in, but this time I actually pinched a chain  link closed around the hole so it made for a nicer, realistic connection. Before  closing off the other side, we need to thread the banner on this chain, and to  create that banner, I used brass shim stock. I sketched out the basic shape of  my banner with the Sharpie and cut it out using an X-Acto knife. I was  struggling with cutting out the corners of this banner, and a good solution to  deal with them was to drill out each corner with the Dremel first and then  connect the dots essentially with my X-Acto knife. The edges were pretty  jagged, so I cleaned it up with a file. Brass shim stock is super thin so I can  bend and curve the surface to my heart's content. It doesn't exactly look  perfectly like cloth, but once it's painted, it'll look great, and I'm sure I  have some skills to learn about dealing with this new material as well. With that  done and the holes drilled for the chains finished, I was able to thread the  banner on and fasten it to the other side. At the moment, the banner is all  floppy, and you can definitely keep it like that if you want, but I wanted to  fasten it in place, and I did that again with some super glue thin. Be sparing  with this stuff because it has a tendency to get everywhere, and I mean  everywhere.  All right, let's get even weirder. When this commission was sent to me, it was  also sent with some bits from the Forge Fiend kit for conversions. I wanted to  use the assault cannon looking thing, but it was a little dinky, so I grabbed some  hollow styrene rods that were similar in diameter and glued them to the weapon  with a larger diameter rod running through the middle. I trued up the ends  of these pipes with some gentle sanding once the glue was cured. Now, the part  that this thing would normally attach to has a gaping hole in it, so I busted out  my trusty circle cutter and cut a little styrene disc that fit nicely into the  hole. This gave me a surface that I could glue my weapon to. With that glued in  place, I took some guitar string, which makes for great to scale cables, and  attached them from the holes in the gun to the holes below the big shield of the  gun. Undoubtedly, this is also a weapon of some kind that I am clogging up with  cables, but it looks cool, so who cares? It's a little hard to bend guitar string  without getting a kink in it, so I try to only bend it over round surfaces, but  even that's not perfect. Next up, I sculpted a bit on the bottom of the gun  to make it look less like it was just awkwardly glued in place and more like  it was an actual fixture attached to the weapon. I used more of the metal  sculpting tools, color shapers, and plenty of water to get a nice finish. I also  sanded the part that I connected to the plastic kit to make sure it was nice and  seamless. To finish it off, I sanded a flat side on a skull and attached it to  the middle of the assault cannon, because it's a bad guy renegade night, you know,  chaos and stuff. Also, this massive hole in one side of the gun where I presume it  gets attached to a forge fiend, I just stuffed a bunch of epoxy sculpt in there  and a couple of skulls again because CHAOS. Does anyone pronounce it chouse?  Chouse. Sounds less chaos-y. Alright, on to the last bit of conversion, the  battle cannon. Using another bit from the forge fiend kit, I sawed it down to size.  I wanted the cannon to be coming out of the mouth of whatever demon weapon this  thing was, and I had some resizing to do. I had to widen the gap in the mouth, but  also the size of the cannon so that it matched the width of this mouth weapon  thing. After a lot of cutting and sanding, I was able to get a pretty nice fit that  I glued into place. Like the previous weapon, I glued in a piece of styrene  into the cavity in the big gun arm thing so I could actually attach it. Since the  end that would get attached was all gnarly because I sawed it in half, I pinned  it in with a piece of brass and some super glue. This gave me a nice sturdy  connection that I could now start sculpting on. Now, this clip is very old  and I have no idea why I was sculpting what I was sculpting, but that looks like  a wiener, does it not? Thank God I had some sense and instead just sculpted a  bunch of puffy looking flesh around it, almost like the engineers that added  this on had to keep it in place with some dark magic. Dark Willy magic,  apparently. The key to get a nice smooth finish is silicone color shapers and a  cruddy brush with some water in it, applying water liberally to the epoxy  sculpt. Lastly, I had to sculpt in some more gums and teeth so the fortress weapon  itself connected to the battle cannon. With that complete, that was the last bit  of conversion on this model. That process, in and of itself, took close to 50  hours. Let's see how long I courted this commission for.  Well, I messed up. Moving on. As one last bit of surface prep, I cleaned off the  model with a toothbrush and some soapy water. I manhandled the crap out of this  thing a lot, so I was looking to clean off any remaining finger oils, plastic  shavings, etc. Alright, we're about halfway through this now. Let's take a brief  break to thank the sponsor of this video. Cobalt Keep is a miniature accessory  brand. Their bread-and-butter focuses around the usage of magnets. Cobalt Keep  sells a variety of base sizes that you might find in typical games, but what's  special about these bases is the magnet well on the underside, which allows for  easy installation of a magnet with a little super glue. Now your minis are  able to stick to any metal surface, such as a figure case or Cobalt Keep's  painting handles that come in two different sizes, one a little larger than  the other for different hand sizes. The number of ideas that can take advantage  of magnets is endless, and a new product that Cobalt Keep is currently releasing  on Kickstarter are their stackable display cases. Coming in a variety of  sizes, you can display your heroes, entire units, and more inside these display  cases for transport, and also for showing off to friends and family. The stackable  display cases make storage easy, even if you have limited space. You can find  Kickstarter linked in the description below, and it's running until the end of  the day on November 1st. Check it out and take advantage of a hefty discount on  the products in the Kickstarter. Additionally, from now until the end of  October, you can get a 20% off discount on their web store when using the code  MOIST at checkout. That was not their idea. It was one of my patrons' ideas, and  I loved it. You can find all their stuff linked in the description below. Thanks  for sponsoring YouTubers Cobalt Keep. Now back to the video.  The first couple stages of painting are pretty straightforward. I applied a black  primer all over the model to improve paint adhesion, and then started applying  a silver base coat. I used Vallejo Metal Color Aluminum, a fairly bright silver,  because I plan to muddy it down quite a bit later on in the painting process. With  that done, I moved on to applying the first of the House Atraks colors, the  chosen chapter for this Renegade Knight. I applied the dark gray without doing  any masking for the silver. I figured that in certain areas it would just look  like greasy dust, and in other areas I could just paint the silver over it with  a paintbrush, and that'd be a lot faster than masking everything off  meticulously. With the base coat down, I applied layers of highlights, getting  brighter and brighter. I had to keep in mind that once I started to dirty this  thing up, it would likely get darker, so I need to shoot higher than what I want  my end result to be. Lastly, I applied a black shade with the airbrush. For the  panels that are large and flat, I simply did a gradient from top to bottom.  Sometimes having a nicely smooth blend on a model is cool enough. It doesn't  have to necessarily be realistic. On other parts that had more interesting  volumes, I did consider a zenithal lighting, like on the chest shield. You  don't necessarily need an airbrush to paint a knight, but to get blends like  this that span the entirety of the whole of the model, it can sure as heck make it  infinitely easier. I can't imagine trying to get this massive gradient with a  brush in under five hours. If you're watching this and you're like,  but Scott, I don't have an airbrush! That's totally okay. Just maybe don't go  for something as grandiose as a blend across each and every panel of this  monster. A base coat with some recessed shading and some edge highlighting looks  cool enough. After that was done, I did some masking to cover up half of the  shoulder pads and the chest shield, and did the red half of the armor, the other  House Atraks color. I did this in a very similar fashion, starting with a mid-tone,  applying two highlights, and then a shadow to finish it off. With the red  complete, I could peel the tape off for a very crispy reveal. Oof, that's nice. Well,  that was extremely satisfying. I suppose I should do something that is extremely  unsatisfying to balance it out. How about painting Golden Trim forever?  And ever, and ever, and ever.  Is this thing out? Oh my god! I've been base coating metallics for nine hours  straight. That took a long time. To finish up the base coating, I painted a copper  metal accent color on various bits and bobs around the model, and also painted  some yellow and gray cables around the model. There are other details that do  need to be painted, but I'll wrap those up in the end. For now, this is all the  major color down, and I can move on to a step that's very unfamiliar to me.  Something that I learned while painting this guy is that the knights have very  specific iconography on the majority of their armor panels. One could freehand  all of this, but that would take a long time, and as you remember, I instead used  decals, which were sent along with the knight, and that's gonna save a lot of  time. Applying decals to big surfaces like this isn't the most complicated  thing, so here's a quick tutorial. Cut out the decal that you need and moisten it  in water, and set it down for two to three minutes. Once you're nearing the  end of that time, prepare the surface of where the decal will be with some  Microset, a solvent designed to work with decals. While that's still wet, grab the  transfer paper with your decal on it, and slide it off using whatever tool is  comfortable to you. A great option is a paintbrush. At this point, you still have  a lot of adjustability to get it in the right spot. Sometimes the brush doesn't  cut it, and I like to have something a little bit harder, like an old airbrush  needle or tweezers. Once the placement is right, gently apply some Microsol to  the decal. This will soften the decal, helping it conform to the surface a lot  better. It's important to get the location correct before doing this, as it softens  the decal a lot, making it very difficult to adjust without getting wrinkles and  bubbles in it. This is a pretty good intro to decals for myself, because all  the surfaces are nice and large and fairly uniform, so I went a little crazy  applying decals all over the model. We'll deal with hiding the fact that these are  decals a little bit later. Okay, that's cool, but how about the specific House  Atrax iconography? I don't have decals for that. Well, I splurged a bit and bought  this machine.  This is a Cricut, and it is essentially an X-Acto blade attached to a CNC. I  created a design for the chapter in Adobe Illustrator and cut it out on the  Cricut using non-permanent vinyl stickers, and shockingly, it actually  worked out fantastically on the first try, which was not what I was expecting  at all. This tool is absolutely magical, and expect to see me using it in the  future, specifically for cutting thin styrene for terrain. It's gonna be  awesome. With the stencils cut out, I had one last bit of surface prep that I was  going to do, and that was adding some heavy chipping medium to the surfaces  where I plan on applying these icons. I wanted the icons to be worn and chipped,  but I also wanted to show the cool gradient I had worked on beneath where  the red and gray show through. After the armor was sufficiently masked off and my  stencils were on, I applied my white. I tried to go slowly and thinly so as not  to flood the surface. When I removed the mask, I was met with some pretty extreme  disappointment. I applied too heavy a layer of chipping medium, and the paint  adhered more to the vinyl than it did to the model. Luckily for me, this was going  to be chipped anyways, and with some white paint and a paintbrush, I could add  more of the sword back that I wanted. With that lesson learned, I applied a  diluted version of the chipping medium to the next shoulder pad and had a lot  more success. One nice side effect about having chipping medium down where I  wanted to apply these stencils was that I could essentially wipe away any spots  that were accidents, like it leaked past the masking with some brush and some  water. I tried it yet again without any chipping medium at all with a gear right  on top of the hole. This sort of stencil is incredibly helpful because painting  perfect circles is incredibly difficult without it looking super wonky. This  third attempt was crispy AF. If you're planning on doing this even with just  normal masks that you might buy from a third party, experiment with levels of  chipping medium that you apply, how long you wait for the medium to dry, etc. It  will all affect your end result. Lastly, I couldn't avoid freehand altogether.  Certain designs were too small for the Cricut to render, at least on my first  try, so instead of trying to troubleshoot it, I just resorted to freehanding a  little octopus lightning bolt guy instead. If you want a deep dive into  freehanding specifically, check out a video that I've linked in the top  right-hand corner and also the description. Alright, that finishes up all  the iconography on the knight. Now on to the super fun step, weathering.  Weathering is going to dirty up this model for us, but also provide us with  some much-needed depth. To start out, however, I painted some chips and some  dings on the decals and painted logos that I had just added to simulate a  chipping effect like I got on the shoulder pads. This will be our first  level of hiding the fact that these are decals. Next, it's time to pull out the  big guns. I've never messed around with oil washes before, but why not start on  the largest model I've ever painted and the last commission? Everything will be  just fine, right? Spoilers, everything is actually fine. Go figure. I started by  making a mixture of 2 to 1 black and brown oil paint, to which I added white  spirits. I don't entirely know what viscosity to shoot for, so I just mixed  up something that seemed thin enough to apply through an airbrush. You can  totally apply this with a paintbrush and it works amazingly, but I decided to use  an airbrush to expedite the process. Applying an even layer of this stuff  over a large surface is very quick with an airbrush, and here's a disclaimer. This  stuff is probably awful to breathe in. While I was doing this, I was wearing a  respirator, I had an air purifier running, and I had a fan running in an area  pointed at an open window. I hope that I appeased the YouTube health police with  this grand gesture of safety. Seriously though, this is not water-based acrylic  paint. You don't want to haphazardly spray it around. Once it was on and  looked like it was dry, I began to dab it up with some more white spirits and this  makeshift sponge on a stick tool, patent pending. In an episode of Trapped Under  Plastic, my co-host John let me know about these eye makeup sponge things  that are great for this operation, but I didn't have any, so I tried to make one,  and you know what? It worked out great. The sponge was moistened with white  spirits, not soaked in it. I mostly was swiping toward the recesses on the  model so the oil paint would collect there. After each part, I rinsed out the  little sponge in more white spirits and proceeded, and it lasted the entire time.  Good job, little sponge boy. You can remove as much or as little as you want,  depending on how weathered of an appearance you want. What I'm left with  is a crusty, dirty-looking machine. The technique worked perfectly to add the  depth that I needed while also giving the knight a whole layer of lovely grime. To  add more weathering, I applied straight-up brown oil paint to various  cracks and creases and then streaked it with a soft, non-wet brush to get these  nice drips. If you want more of a sharper drip line, you can use a brush wetted  with white spirits. Both options work, they just get you a different effect. With  that all done, I let it sit for a day, and then the following morning, I sprayed  the whole model with a matte varnish. You don't necessarily need to do this for  I wanted to as a final layer over my decals. With the chipping, the oil wash,  and the varnish, this nicely blends the decals into the surface. As a last bit of  weathering, it was time for some good old faithful chipping that I've shown off in  previous videos. In all the chips and dings that I added with my Dremel, I  painted on some black to represent a layer of primer showing beneath. Then,  with some silver paint, I painted inside that black to represent the metal of the  armor showing through. I probably should have done this before doing the oil  paint drips, but you know what? I forgot, and that's okay. With all the chips and  dings complete, I added a pinkish and light gray scratchy edge highlight to  most of the edges, and also the underside of all the black scrapes that I just  added. This not only shows off a lot of the cool paneling on the model, but it  also emphasizes the wear and tear. It also gives those little black chips a  3D feel to them, like light is hitting the bottom edge of them, making the  battle damage feel concave. Lastly, I applied some gold highlight to the trim  with a sponge, which can be a little tricky. Sometimes the sponge wanted to  wrap over the edge of the trim and hit the armor, which is obviously something  you want to avoid. This added a nice highlight to the gold, but in a spotty  weathered way. Bonus points because it was pretty easy to do as well. I actually  finished off the weathering portion of the night that gave us a lot of depth  and highlights. At school hall, we can essentially kill two birds with one  stone, adding grit and grime and contrast at the same time. Now let's  finish painting the model itself with a few extra parts.  We've laid a good groundwork for this model to look cool from the tabletop. Now  let's spice it up with some fun details. These are the kinds of choices that are  like little Easter legs for the paint job that people notice as they pick it  up and look at the model over. We'll start with the chest mounted turret. I  wanted to add some caution stripes to this. I think the idea works well because  it naturally incorporates our spot color, which is yellow, without just painting  the whole thing yellow. I began with a medium gray undercoat and started to  build up highlights toward the top and the bottom of this shape that flares out  toward the gun barrel. Then with a combination of yellows as my highlight  and oranges as my shadow, I sort of wet blend on top of these stripes. While the  undercoat process wasn't entirely necessary, it helps to reach opacity very  quickly with yellow and orange. Once I got the general look complete, I added in  some weathering by painting some black chips and dings. This is a great way to  hide any crimes we might have committed by going outside the lines with our  yellow or having the lines not even the right widths. After that, I moved on to  adding some grease to what seems like joints and pistons. Using Tamiya clear  orange, I apply little drips. This is like the fresh grease to what looks like dirt  and buildup that we got with our oil wash. Weathering is all about having nice  variety and a glossy finish for this is a nice contrast to our previous matte  attempts. For the fleshy connection that we sculpted earlier, I started with a  normal base coat and wash much like you'd paint any other skin tone. I then  started to highlight and this is where it got a little funky. I mixed in a very  light green so the skin tone looked slightly ill and then to ensure that no  one had any question about whether or not this skin was healthy, I also added  in some nasty yellow and green drips from the folds of the flesh. I also added  in some tiny glass nail art beads to simulate some kind of bubbling. Lastly, we  need to do some kind of freehand lettering. On a saw blade, there was some  small scroll work that I added the word vile to because, you know, chaos. On the  chest itself, however, I asked the Commissioner what he wanted because this  represented the name of the knight itself and he asked for the word  carnage. While that word is kind of long, it has one advantage and that is that  it's seven letters or an odd number. This means that I can place the N right in  the middle of the scroll and work out from there one letter at a time, making  sure that I size each letter correctly. This has the added benefit of not needing  to worry about filling the whole scroll. As long as it's centered, I'm pretty much  good to go. The black I'm using here is a mixture of black paint and black ink  which thins down the black paint nicely so it flows off the brush but also  doesn't reduce the opacity of the black as much as something like water might. I  just have a few more details I need to scrape together like these skulls, the  body I added to the shoulder pad, and some other things. The end is so close I  can feel it.  For such an epic model, we need an equally epic base. To represent the scale  and mass of this unit in-game, I wanted to depict the knight crushing a barrier.  I plotted out approximately where the barrier would go and I made sure that  the knight's foot would fit in the opening. I began to build up some  structure with square styrene stock and then with these supports I could start  to adhere sheets of brick texture to it. Since all these parts are plastic,  plastic glue will work to stick them all together. Before gluing on the brick  texture, I removed some bricks like they had popped out due to the strain of the  knight's foot. Next up, I added some more structure, this time attaching it to the  brick wall itself and this allowed me to add some cool metal styrene texture to  the top of my wall like a walkway. I distressed the edges of this with some  clippers and an exacto knife and then glued it down. With some rectangular  styrene stock, I scored a line down the center of it and widened that line with  a triangular file down the length and then this little groove allowed me to  glue it on top of the edge of the brick wall. This allowed me to kind of hide the  fact that these bricks were unrealistically skinny, but honestly it  doesn't really matter a ton because everyone's gonna be looking at the model  itself and details like these are kind of the cherry on top. With the main  structure done, I stuffed the insides with mostly tinfoil but also milliput on  the outside. While the putty was still curing, I was also able to stuff a bunch  of debris into it like cables, some of the walkway material, some resin bricks  that I have, and all sorts of rubble. It's important to mention that at multiple  points of working on this barrier, I always check to see if the knight's foot  still fit. With the wall squared away, I started to add some low points in the  base by cutting out holes again with the ball bur bit in my Dremel. This is  fairly messy but it gets the job done on a fairly thick material, whereas an  exacto would take a lot longer than I care to spend. After some basic cleaning  with some files and some blades, I could trace the perimeter onto some thin  styrene below and then adhere it to the bottom of my base with a snake of  milliput and some super glue. Then with some pressure, I could push the base flat  which causes the milliput to squeeze out and with a wetted finger, I can bevel  this squeeze out to make a nice slope into a shallow little pond. With the main  structure done, I could apply some dirt with some PVA glue all over the base, add  a few extra knickknacks like skulls, bricks, and larger rocks, and then seal it  all in place with some super glue thin. Now we're ready for some paint. I did end  up priming this because there are elements that are plastic and resin that  might benefit from it but it's not likely necessary. I started by applying a  nice rich brown color. I then built up a few orange colors on the base to cause a  vignetting effect toward the center of the base. This base was supposed to be a  desert which is why I chose these tones initially. I also specifically chose  scale 75 paints because it dries extra matte which helps enforce the idea this  is a arid sandy place. While I had the airbrush out, I started to base coat the  walls as well, not caring too much as some red remained on the bricks. I did  take some time to base coat some of the other details like the bricks and the  large rocks and the metal walkway. I applied a quick shade to some of the  rubble and the walkway to give them some depth. Lastly, for the little ponds, I  added some Mod Podge Dimensional Magic and a bit of black ink to create this  nasty Icarus spill to which I added some drops of Tamiya Clear Orange like a  little drop of grease and whatever this liquid is supposed to be. Not shown here  is me adding a bunch of desert vegetation and some dry pigments but  apparently I was too excited to glue everything together that I forgot to hit  record. So I guess this brings us finally to the end. Just kidding! I'm a dumbass  and did the chest freehand upside down!  Let me just quickly redo that and then we can get on to the epic b-roll. 