 Welcome to our webinar on Introduction to SCORE, the Supply Chain Operations Reference  Model.  I'm Melinda Spring, Director of Corporate Programs for APICS, and joining me for this  presentation is Carolyn Lawrence, Director of Corporate Development for APICS.  We are subject matter experts in the SCORE area and are happy to share this introduction  with you.  This becomes especially important now that all APICS members everywhere in the world  have access to the SCORE model.  For our introduction, we are going to cover these four topics.  So our objectives include explore the origins and goals of the SCORE model, understand the  basic structure of SCORE, overview the four central parts of the framework, and overview  a SCORE improvement program.  So first we'll talk about what is SCORE.  SCORE is an acronym for Supply Chain Operations Reference Model.  It was developed to assist businesses to understand, structure, and evaluate the performance of  their supply chains.  It was founded as a supply chain improvement methodology using process analytics, performance  metrics, and best practices to improve supply chains by identifying performance gaps, guiding  organizational change management, and providing the analysis needed to drive improvement programs  to achieve increased levels of supply chain performance.  The SCORE framework was developed in the early 1990s by a consulting firm, particularly Rabin  Todd and McGrath, and AMR Research, with the assistance of individuals from corporations  such as Bayer, Compaq, Procter & Gamble, Lockheed Martin, and others to develop a methodology  to improve supply chain performance.  In 1996, PRTM and AMR founded a user-based organization, the Supply Chain Council, starting  with the original 69 corporations driving its inception, SCC managed SCORE for many  hundreds of member companies, and by 2012, the initial SCORE framework had progressed  through 11 revisions.  In 2014, SCC merged with APEX.  The SCORE method was integrated into APEX operations management body of knowledge framework  and APEX certifications to provide optimized supply chain management knowledge, best practices,  and performance.  This brief history is important to show that SCORE is a tool created by and for practitioners  to improve their supply chains.  SCORE uses best practices arising from real-world examples and research, and is not an academic  exercise.  SCORE is a living document.  There are numerous committees and teams that are rethinking, developing, and researching  information to continuously enhance the SCORE model.  SCORE provides a single integrated approach to supply chain improvement.  A goal of the SCORE framework is to assist supply chain management to solve business  problems and improve processes and performance.  SCORE attempts to accomplish this goal through four main techniques.  First to pursue continuous supply chain improvement by closely examining business processes and  validating that they make sense.  They are measured in SCORE terms to capture the as-is state, and then to determine the  desire-to-be state.  Second, to compare supply chain performance to other supply chains at all levels and benchmarking  like-for-like measures.  Third, to examine existing supply chain practices and identify practices and technology solutions  that result in significantly better performance.  SCORE provides an easy-to-use basis for analysis to ensure the existing supply chain is starting  out at least even with competitors.  Finally, the SCORE framework supports organizational design, engaged in continuous learning and  skills enhancement, and focused on performance.  The SCORE framework links process elements, metrics, practices, and the requirements on  staff operating the processes in a unique format.  The uniqueness of the power of framework is chiefly derived from using these four elements  together with a predefined relationship between processes.  These predefined relationships are the result of research and collaboration in the development  of SCORE.  This graphic illustrates the level one processes of all APICS frameworks.  SCORE is a part of this collection.  These frameworks provide companies with a comprehensive set of tools to undertake supply  chain improvements from several angles.  These tools are individually selected based on the improvement objectives identified by  supply chain management.  Additional frameworks beyond SCORE include the DCORE model, Design Chain Operations Reference,  which provides a unique framework that links business processes, metrics, practices, and  features into a unified structure to support communication among design chain partners  and to improve the effectiveness of the extended supply chain.  CCORE is the Customer Chain Operations Reference, a unified structure to support communication  among supply chain partners and to improve the effectiveness of supply chain management  and related supply chain improvement activities.  It provides a core set of high-level common business processes for the customer chain  and a common language for the exchange of process knowledge and linking sales, operations,  and customer support business processes.  The PLCORE, which is the Product Lifecycle Operations Reference, is a reference for innovation,  product and portfolio management.  The model spans all product lifecycle activities from the first idea to broad adoption in the  mass market.  The model is intended to be industry independent and should apply to lifecycles of both products  and service offerings.  Also not shown here, but the most recent framework is the M4SC model, Managing Supply Chain Performance.  This reference model is for describing supply chain management processes, spanning activities  from interpretation of business strategy to assigning critical supply chain resources.  By describing supply chain management processes using process building blocks, the model can  be used to identify and address critical supply chain management deficiencies.  APICS provides SCORE practitioners with three reference sources to assist in learning and  application.  The SCORE model is the reference that contains the full detail of the SCORE reference  framework and body of knowledge and is available online as a PDF and as a paper-bound book  that is distributed as part of the SCORE professional training or can be purchased separately.  The model provides practitioners with the complete framework in five sections, performance,  processes, practices, people, and special applications, including detail on the various  levels and cross-references needed to construct a SCORE improvement program.  The SCORE Quick Reference Guide, which is available online, provides practitioners with  a digital version of an easy-to-use document containing a summary of the detail found in  the model.  The guide provides users with the ability to easily locate level 1, 2, and 3 processes  and metrics for quick reference without consulting the full SCORE model framework.  The SCORE mobile device app provides practitioners with high-level SCORE content directly on  a mobile device for quick and easy reference, plus much more.  The SCORE app is a greatly expanded version of the Quick Reference and easily accessible  on your mobile device.  Some of the key features include it's a free download available through the App Store and  Google Play, search for APEX SCORE.  It's a powerful search option included by term, so you can search for anything in SCORE  and find it with one touch.  Level 1 and 2 process and metrics definitions are included.  Level 1 and 2 metrics definitions and calculations are included.  Level 3 lists for processes and metrics.  Definitions for all emerging practices and a sampling of best and standard practices.  Definition of skills and a sampling of experience and training lists.  So advantages of using SCORE framework in summary.  Scope of the SCORE framework applies to the entire supply chain.  It orients supply chain improvements around standardization set of performance process  practice and skills metrics, enables supply chain performance and practice benchmarking,  centers supply chain improvement efforts on creating value for customers, applies detailed  supply chain metrics to measure supply chain performance, provides metric and activity  alignment across organizational boundaries, and establishes a common repository of supply  chain performance terms and tool sets.  So let's take a look at the SCORE model framework.  The SCORE model is divided into five sections, performance, process, practices, people, and  a special application section.  The performance section contains the standard metrics to describe the process performance  and define strategic goals.  The process section contains the standard descriptions of management processes and process  relationships.  The six major processes defined in SCORE are plan, source, make, deliver, return, and enable.  The practices section contains management practices that produce significantly better  process performance.  The three major practices sections are emerging, leading, and best practices.  The people section contains the standard definitions for skills required to perform supply chain  processes.  And special applications is a standalone portion, also called sustainable SCORE.  And while not being interrelated to the four major sections, it consists of proposed global  reporting initiatives environmental metrics with categories including materials used,  percent recycled input materials, percent reclaimed input materials, and energy consumed.  A unique feature about SCORE that sets it apart from most other supply chain improvement  frameworks is not just its detailed list of processes, metrics, practices, and people  skills, but how it combines all four and adds predefined relationships between processes  in terms of material, information, and workflows.  These predefined relationships are the result of the research and collaborative definition  that all participants in SCORE development have contributed.  The SCORE framework uses a precise nomenclature to describe each activity.  Each of the five sections, performance, process, practices, people, and sustainable SCORE has  its own codification nomenclature.  By viewing the alpha portion of the code, users can easily locate the activity in the  reference model.  The SCORE model provides a detailed description of all individual SCORE activities termed  a SCORE table.  Each SCORE table is given its own page in the SCORE model.  For the most part, the table structure is the same.  There can, however, be differences depending on the specific SCORE section and level of  the table.  A SCORE table, such as the one you see here, reads as follows.  In the upper left-hand corner is the activity ID.  This is the code ID for the SCORE table and defines which of the five sections you are  looking at.  Below that and to the right is the name, and that is the full name of the SCORE table.  Below the SCORE table name is a full definition of the table.  The definition will describe the nature of the table and provide examples of how that  table is used.  The next section is the metric section.  As a rule, almost all SCORE tables contain SCORE metrics from the Performance tab linked  to the SCORE table.  For example, the first metric on this table is RL.3.14, Percent of Product Meeting Specified  Environment Performance Requirements.  As a rule, almost all SCORE tables also contain relevant SCORE metrics from the Practices  tab linked to the SCORE table.  For example, the Practices section on this table is BP.089, Perfect Pick Putaway.  In addition, most SCORE tables contain the SCORE People Skills and Competencies from  the People tab linked to the SCORE table.  For example, the People section on this table is HS.0046, ERP Systems.  The SCORE Processes table for Level 2 and Level 3 are accompanied by a graphical workflow  that contains workflow input and output diagrams.  These diagrams are found at the bottom of each table.  These workflow diagrams represent a first pass at showing the graphical representation  of standard flows and process steps associated with the SCORE table.  Since actual supply chains and practices may require different sequences and flows, the  diagrams in the SCORE Processes section should be viewed as standard.  On a typical SCORE graphic workflow, we would find the process ID for the SCORE table which  appears at the top right of the table.  On the left hand side of the diagram are the input SCORE tables used to work with the SCORE  process table activity.  Note that table SDR1, Delivered Return Defective Product, is a Level 2 SCORE process table.  The SCORE input tables can vary by industry and requirements.  In the center are the next level steps needed to perform the table's process SCORE activity.  In this graphic, the steps are all from the Level 3 table of SDR1.  On the right hand side of the diagram are the output SCORE tables needed to perform  the process.  The SCORE output tables can vary by industry and by requirement.  And next we will talk about the objectives of SCORE performance.  To translate the business strategy to supply chain strategy, SCORE provides companies with  analytical tools to assess how their supply chain strategies are accomplishing the goals  specified in the business plan.  Measure supply chain performance.  SCORE performance details the performance attributes and metrics that enable businesses  to track the performance of individual business and supply chain processes.  And SCORE performance provides a repository of performance metrics and formulas that planners  can use to gauge the effectiveness of their processes.  Measure supply chain relative performance compared to competitors.  SCORE performance provides companies and their supply chains with a measuring stick by which  they can compare their current performance with marketplace competitors.  Identify and monitor processes that most likely cause the performance gaps, competitive benchmarking,  and the expected performance of process key performance indicators to actual performance  will highlight the gaps in performance and serve as a roadmap to continuous improvement  to be pursued by businesses and their supply chains.  It's important to define the various performance measurement terms used in the SCORE model.  Performance attribute is a grouping or categorization of metrics used to express a specific strategy.  In SCORE, an attribute itself cannot be measured.  It is used to set strategic direction.  Metrics are a standard for measurement of the performance of a supply chain or process.  Metrics measure the ability of processes to achieve the strategic objectives associated  with performance attributes.  SCORE recognizes three levels of predefined metrics.  Level one metrics are diagnostics for the overall health of the supply chain.  These metrics are also known as strategic metrics and key performance indicators or KPIs.  Benchmarking level one metrics helps establish realistic targets to support strategic direction.  Level two metrics serve as diagnostics for the level ones and the diagnostic relationship  means helps to identify the root cause or causes of a performance gap for a level one  metric.  Level three metrics serve as diagnostics for level two metrics.  Process practice maturity is the measurement of process and practice effectiveness follows  widely used models for practice maturity, which compare actual practice to descriptive  representations of different levels of process and practice adoption and implementation generally  follow a stages of maturity scale of four to five levels.  SCORE performance provides diagnostic metrics to assist companies solve two essential conditions  for effective supply chain management, monitor and diagnosed overall supply chain health  and provide diagnostic relationships that enable gap analysis.  Here are the SCORE performance attributes.  Agility is defined as the ability to perform tasks as required.  Typical metrics for the reliability attribute include on time, the right quantity, the right  quality.  Reliability is a customer focused attribute.  Responsiveness defined as the speed at which tasks are performed and typical metrics for  responsiveness include cycle time metrics.  Responsiveness is a customer focused attribute.  Agility defined as the ability of the organization to effectively respond to external influences  and marketplaces changes or marketplace changes to gain or maintain a competitive advantage.  Agility is a customer focused attribute.  Cost is the cost of operating supply chain processes.  Typical costs include labor material and transportation costs.  Cost is an internal focused attribute.  Asset management efficiency or simply assets is defined as the ability of the supply chain  to efficiently use its assets.  Asset management strategies in a supply chain include inventory reduction and insourcing  versus outsourcing.  Example metrics include inventory days of supply and capacity utilization.  Asset management efficiency is an internal focused attribute.  Also note here that the score performance attribute coding for each of the attributes  is included, RL for reliability, etc.  Score performance metrics consist of three levels which are linked to the five performance  attributes.  These levels of performance metrics are industry neutral.  Here we see the five performance attributes and their associated level one metrics.  Level one metrics are known as strategic metrics or key performance indicators, KPIs.  Note that each of the level one metrics are referenced back to their attribute through  the use of the attribute score code.  The score model decomposes the 10 level one performance metrics to include level two and  level three performance metrics.  So let's turn our attention just now to score processes.  There are six level one score processes, plan, source, make, deliver, return, and enable.  Plan processes describe the activities associated with developing plans to operate the supply  chain.  It includes the gathering of requirements, identifying available resources, balancing  requirements and resources to determine planned capabilities as well as gaps in capabilities,  and specifying actions to correct these gaps.  Source processes describe the activities involved in scheduling product deliveries,  receiving products, verifying products, transferring or moving products, and authorizing supplier  payment.  Make processes describe the activities associated with the conversion of materials or creation  of content for services.  It includes adding value to products through assembly, mixing, separating, forming, machining,  and chemical processes.  Customer processes describe the activities associated with the creation, maintenance,  and fulfillment of customer orders.  Detail activities encompass the receipt, validation, and creation of the customer order as well  as scheduling order delivery, pick, pack, shipment, and invoicing.  Return processes describe the activities associated with the reverse flow of goods.  Activities encompass identification of returns, disposition decision making, scheduling of  the return, and shipment and receipt of the returned goods.  Enable processes then describe the management of the supply chain.  They include management of business rules, performance management, data management, resource  management, facilities management, contract management, supply chain network management,  regulatory compliance management, and risk management.  Customer processes are designed to assist companies in managing their supply chains.  The overall strategic objective of the SCORE framework is to assist process improvement  teams to first document the current business and supply chain environment or the as-is  state, and then to develop the future improved or to-be state.  The value of the SCORE framework is realized when improvement teams are able to identify  and quantify the gaps in service, cost, and inventory between the as-is and the desired  to-be states of the business and supply chain.  The to-be state processes, practices, and performance metrics are then prioritized into  an enterprise improvement project.  This visual illustrates the classic view of the six SCORE processes and supply chain management.  A supply chain is defined as the integrated processes of plan, source, make, deliver,  return, and enable, spanning from the supplier's supplier to the customer's customer.  The supply chain is composed of your company at the center and tiers of suppliers and customers  extending in either direction.  To the immediate right of the company are first-tier customers that can be either internal  or external.  To the left are first-tier suppliers that, again, can be either internal or external.  The model also displays a second tier illustrating supplier's suppliers and customer's customers.  In actuality, the SCORE framework represents more than one external tier, but only two  are shown.  The model spans all customer processes, all physical material transactions, and all market  interactions.  However, the SCORE process supply chain model does not attempt to describe every business  process or activity.  For example, it does not address sales and marketing, demand generation, product development,  research and development, and some elements of post-delivery customer support.  The descriptions of supply chains using the six SCORE processes as building blocks enable  a description of supply chains that are very simple or very complex using a common set  of definitions.  As a result, different industries can be linked to describe the depth and breadth of virtually  any supply chain and providing a basis for supply chain improvement for global programs  as well as local programs.  This is an example of several source processes modeled using SCORE.  Marketing is all about managing the inbound flow of material from vendors, including all  the listed activities.  As you can see from these examples, there are many different ways that companies manage  the source or any process, and SCORE is flexible enough to be able to map them.  Next we are going to cover SCORE practices.  A practice is a unique way to configure a process or a set of processes.  The uniqueness can be related to the automation of a process, a technology applied to a process,  special skills applied to a process, a unique sequence for performing a process, or a unique  method for distributing and connecting processes between organizations.  SCORE practices have been designed to assist companies and their supply chains to perform  tasks such as standardized processes.  SCORE practices enable process improvement teams to effectively identify their existing  processes and to use best practices to improve and standardize them.  Identify alternative methods of operating the supply chain.  SCORE repository of practices enables supply chain improvement teams to identify alternative  practices for performing operations and enables supply chain improvement teams to generate  a futures program list for ongoing reorganization of existing processes.  And also they can formulate a list of undesired process configurations.  So a supply chain practices review can identify practices that actually impede high performance  and that are actually destructive of operations efficiencies.  This list can be prioritized and used as the starting point for an improvement program.  Emerging practice is defined as the introduction of a new technology, knowledge, or radically  different methods of organizing processes.  So an emerging practice can cause an order of magnitude change in performance by redefining  how a business operates and competes in the marketplace.  Emerging practices may not be easy to adopt because of proprietary technology or special  knowledge prevents wider adoption.  Emerging practices generally have not been thoroughly tested and they involve high risk  but results in high performance and high profitability.  Best practices are defined as practices that have had a proven and positive impact on supply  chain performance.  They are categorized as follows.  Current, which means not emerging and not obsolete, structured, they feature a clearly  stated goal, scope, process, and procedure, proven, they've demonstrated in a working  environment and linked to key metrics, repeatable, proven in multiple organizations and industries,  will not yield the same performance results for all industries and supply chains, involves  moderate risk and results in progressive performance.  Then we have standard practices, which are defined as how a wide range of companies and  supply chains have historically conducted operations.  These provide good performance but do not provide a significant cost or competitive  advantage.  They involve low risk and results in acceptable performance.  So now let's talk a little bit about the people section of SCORE.  The people section of SCORE in the SCORM framework was added in SCORE version 10.0 and introduces  standards for managing talent in your supply chain as well as providing a set of standards  for describing skills required to perform tasks and manage processes.  It supports the SCORE performance processes and practices section of the SCORE framework  with an integrated view of supply chain skills.  The SCORE people section assists supply chain improvement teams in four ways.  One, it provides baseline skills necessary for the overall process area and for individual  processes.  Two, it also provides critical skills that differentiate leaders in a particular process  area from those who only perform at a baseline level.  Three, it provides performance measures through SCORE metrics that relate to continuous asset  of job performance in each process area.  And four, it provides credentialing of supply chain skills including training or certification  programs related to the specific process area that tend to indicate superior job performance.  SCORE people is composed of three commonly accepted elements, skills, experience, and  training.  Skill is the capacity to deliver predetermined results with minimal input of time and energy.  An example of a skill would include such things as master scheduling, import-export regulations,  production planning, and risk mitigation.  Experience is the knowledge or ability acquired by observation or active participation.  Experience is obtained by doing the work in a real-life environment and undergoing different  situations that require different actions.  Examples of experience would include things like cycle counting, cross-talking, and hazard  or hazardous materials handling.  Training is the development of a skill or type of a behavior through instruction.  Examples of training would include the SCORE P endorsement training, formal education courses,  and on-the-job training.  SCORE people elements are related to SCORE performance processes and practices.  Each skill is linked directly to SCORE processes.  The skill linkages appear only on the level three SCORE processes.  SCORE skills are not directly linked to performance but are linked via the process, the SCORE  level three processes.  SCORE skills are linked to some but not all of the SCORE practices.  Experience and trainings are linked only to SCORE skills.  Now let's do a review of sustainable SCORE.  Sustainable SCORE is new in SCORE 12 and takes the place of the previously called green SCORE.  Sustainable SCORE provides a collection of proposed metrics to assist companies in their  efforts to establish environmental sustainability guidelines.  The pursuit of environmental sustainability models and audit metrics are a growing business  concern in today's global environment.  While there are multiple approaches to measuring the total environment footprint of an organization  or a supply chain, the Global Reporting Initiative standards have emerged as the go-to standard  for corporate sustainability.  GRI standards are free to use and are available at www.globalreporting.org standards.  The sustainable SCORE section introduces a set of strategic environmental metrics that  effectively allow the SCORE model to be used as a framework for establishing environmental  accounting.  Only GRI metrics that are within the realm of supply chain management, sourcing, and  managing the risk related to supply chain operations are included within the scope of  the SCORE model.  Sustainable SCORE is included in the separate special applications section and is not included  yet with fully approved SCORE metrics.  Here is a sample of sustainable SCORE metrics.  The metrics can be used for each of the SCORE level 3 processes and then aggregated to level  2 and level 1 processes.  These metrics are readily available for most organizations that are measuring and reporting  upon GRI material topics.  Environmental agencies and industry associations have developed emission factors based on process  throughput, energy consumption, and so on for calculating emissions.  Alternate emissions values can be directly collected through monitoring programs or common  documents such as regulatory reports, waste shipping documents, environmental permits,  etc.  By adding these metrics to the SCORE model, an organization can use the existing SCORE-based  methods for defining supply chain scope and configuration.  Once the process is complete, sustainable SCORE metrics allow for targeted, structured  data collection and calculation of metrics, which ultimately provide a total view of supply  chain environmental performance.  Using the SCORE model as an environmental accounting and audit framework has additional  benefits.  First, the framework clearly ties the various emissions to the originating processes.  This provides a structure for not just measuring performance, but identifying where action  can be taken to improve performance.  Second, the hierarchical nature of the SCORE model enables strategic environmental footprint  goals to be easily translated to targets in specific activities.  Likewise, when strategic goals are not being met, the framework provides a structure for  root cause analysis as well as end-to-end supply chain optimization around environmental  performance.  Lastly, as with other SCORE model metrics, these metrics have clear definitions and a  tie to process activities that provide a foundation for effective benchmarking.  This capability allows companies to compare environmental performance of their supply  chain using the same methods currently used for comparing business performance.  Through benchmarking, companies can effectively understand the extent of the success of their  sustainability efforts by comparing them to the performance of industry peers.  So while most of this presentation has been focused on exploring in detail the contents  and navigation steps of the SCORE framework, we're going to switch gears now and look at  the activities required to apply the SCORE framework to a supply chain improvement program.  While the SCORE framework is a comprehensive repository of supply chain improvement building  blocks, it does not attempt to prescribe how a particular organization should reconfigure  its processes and tailor its systems and information flows in pursuit of high-performance strategic  and operational supply chain structures and operations.  Unlike Lean or Six Sigma, which contain detailed methodologies and full repositories of tool  sets, the SCORE framework does not provide a methodology to guide improvement program  teams as to how they are to use it in an improvement program.  The reason for this is that SCORE focuses only on the evaluation of the supply chain  and assumes that improvement teams already possess the needed implementation competencies.  The SCORE improvement program introduces a five-phased approach to initiating and managing  a SCORE improvement program.  The racetrack shown here is a high-level diagram describing the five phases necessary to  identify, structure, conduct, and complete a SCORE improvement program.  While the projects are linear by definition, SCORE supply chain improvement is never totally  completed and it is best conceived as a continuous cycle of detailed improvement projects.  While the scope and objectives of individual projects will change, the SCORE framework  provides a tailorable, standardized repository of performance metrics, processes, and best  practices to guide improvement teams.  SCORE implementation begins with identifying the improvement motivation, forming a SCORE  improvement program organization, and delivery of SCORE education.  After that, it's time to set the scope.  Included in these activities are documenting the business environment, defining the scope  of the supply chain involvement in the improvement program, summarizing the business context  for supply chain improvement, documenting and prioritizing the supply chain, collection  of initial supply chain data, and drafting the improvement program charter.  This is followed by configuring the supply chain by focusing on mapping the current state  of the supply chain through analyzing both metric and process performance.  Important activities during this phase include SCORE metric selection, detailed competitive  requirements, benchmarking, and gap analysis.  This phase provides the basis for the project portfolio and benefits calculation used in  the next phase.  Once we complete the analysis section, we move to the optimization section.  Here we focus on grouping performance gaps into projects, calculating a metric benefit  for each project, and prioritizing the projects into implementation waves.  The result is a portfolio of operational defects contained within each project, as  well as the opportunities and benefits.  We're now ready for implementation and to implement with full confidence that we are  implementing a program that will show a definite return on our investment.  Activities in implementation center on implementing a single project in the portfolio.  SCORE Level 4 processes are developed per the project's requirements.  All process changes are then tested, piloted, and rolled out to the supply chain.  Once completed, the improvement team selects the next project from the project portfolio  and a new improvement project cycle begins.  So just what are the drivers behind using SCORE?  In previous years, APICS surveyed our SCORE community to learn more about why they have  chosen SCORE for their improvement efforts.  We know, based on our analysis, that SCORE users have common motivations for embarking  on their journey.  Number one, achieving operational excellence, and number two, implementing supply chain  performance improvements haven't changed in some time.  However, organization and talent are trending up, and globalization and managing business  processes are now new to the top six.  We also know from a 10-year span of research that SCORE users perform better than their  competitors.  This statement is corroborated with similar research done by both PwC and Gartner.  The big number here is 3% to sales.  This means that the portfolio developed during implementation has an average improvement  in operating income value equivalent to 3% of the revenue analyzed for that supply chain,  or for every $100 million in revenue in the supply chain, the average dollar value of  savings is $3 million.  Generally, half of that is in revenue related to improvements in reliability, responsiveness,  and agility.  The other half are typically cost and asset management reductions.  The other trend is the first bullet in the second column.  Implementing SCORE Level 4 blueprints as a starting point in any implementation can  provide you a 30% faster and 30% more functional return and get you back to your performance  level in half the time.  We thought it would be interesting now to share a couple of case studies with you.  These and others can be found on our ABICS website.  In 2002, McCormick & Company embarked on a 10-year journey to completely transform its  supply chain.  Through ongoing efforts to develop employees, align the organization, and continuously improve,  McCormick has succeeded in building a globally coordinated and aligned supply chain group.  As part of the 10-year initiative, 33 separate supply chain excellence projects were identified,  completed, and they spanned multiple divisions and countries.  Each project informed the next, creating a layering effect for lessons learned, practical  experience, and best practices.  Central to the approach was ABICS education and the SCORE model, which was used to align  people, process, organization, and technology to create a global SCORE card.  McCormick applied ABICS education and the SCORE model to align people, processes, organization,  and then used that with their SAP Advanced Planning and Optimization application to implement  a global SNOP process.  The results were they built a global supply chain organization and leadership team and  created a supply chain culture of continuous improvement.  Next, let's discuss a little bit about one of our newer case studies, the Brazilian Post  Office.  The Brazilian Post Office is a state-owned company operating as the National Postal Service  of Brazil.  This organization faced mounting competition as it vied for business with private sector  logistics firms who are more flexible and agile when responding to customer demands,  typically at a lower cost.  The goals of using SCORE were to modernize their logistics services while reducing cost.  They wanted to adopt an international common process language for logistics across their  organization and ultimately hoped to reduce the number of warehouses used by their internal  logistics operations.  In order to do this, they trained 500 employees in SCORE and enacted process improvements,  modernization technologies, and provided training for the labor force.  They applied SCORE to optimize logistics operations and used the SCORE supply chain modeling software  to improve performance and process quality.  The results were astounding.  The company was able to identify cost savings of approximately $60 million annually in their  internal logistics services.  In addition, they were able to improve their order fulfillment cycle time by 25% and reduce  their cost of goods sold by 12%.  They also were able to increase their delivery accuracy by 25% and reduce their direct labor  costs by 79% over 12 months.  As a direct result of this, the Brazilian Post Office was offered the logistics contract  for the most recent Olympics held in Rio de Janeiro.  You can learn more about SCORE by attending one of our three-day public training classes.  Shown here are the ones that are being held in 2018 in the APEX Chicago office, or you  can check out the APEX website for more options being provided by our global partners.  APEX has recently added new benefits to the individual Core Plus membership.  Included in that, as Melinda mentioned, is access to the SCORE framework as well as other  tools such as the digital library and manufacturing and distribution site-based benchmarks.  For a full listing of member benefits, please visit the APEX website.  Members may wish to take advantage of special pricing for groups of individual members  as well as other corporate-only benefits shown here.  For more information about a corporate membership with APEX, please contact APEX Corporate Development.  At APEX, we get many questions on the use of the SCORE model for a supply chain organization.  Some of the most frequently asked questions are, how do I get access to SCORE?  If you are an APEX Plus member, you can gain access to the SCORE framework through your  MyAPEX page by clicking on the Member Benefits tab.  There you will be able to download SCORE and other frameworks.  If you are not an APEX member, you can download the SCORE app for your smart device by searching  for APEX SCORE on either Google Play or the Apple Store.  Please note that the SCORE app is an abridged version of SCORE and includes definitions  and calculations for Level 1 and Level 2 process and performance only.  Question 2.  How long does it take for my organization to implement SCORE?  The answer is, it depends on many factors, organization, data availability, and time  commitment.  As noted in the McCormick case study, SCORE implementation is a continuous improvement  process.  One trip around the SCORE racetrack typically takes most companies between 16 to 24 weeks.  And finally, how can SCORE help me as an individual?  SCORE is a proven common language for supply chain improvement.  It will improve your ability to be able to communicate and improve your workspace both  internally and externally.  We thank you for joining us for the webinar today.  If you have any additional questions or need any additional information, please feel free  to reach out to either Melinda or myself or you can email either memberservices at apex.org  or corporatedevelopment at apex.org and we'd be happy to meet with you one-on-one and give  you additional information.  Thank you very much for your attendance. 