 A great man once said that time is an illusion,  lunchtime doubly so, but despite the apparently  illusory nature of these two things,  time can certainly seem like something that's tangible  and like something that is constantly  slipping through our fingers,  not least of which because of the fact  that we tend to waste so much of it.  Yes, it seems that most of us are perpetually  rocked by at least a little bit of guilt  over the amount of time we spend  scrolling through Netflix,  browsing the dankest of memes,  or just refreshing Instagram to see  how many likes we got on that latest post  in the last 30 seconds.  Though, it also bears mentioning  the amount of time we tend to waste  on things that don't seem to produce as much guilt,  things that seem justified,  like taking on too many commitments  and having an overly busy schedule  where we're stretched thin, stressed out,  and producing low-quality work as a result.  And as Francis Crick once said,  a busy life is a wasted life.  So what I wanna do with this video  is take a broad view of time management  and give you five useful tips  for managing your time more effectively.  Whether you already know you're wasting it  because you're a couch potato,  or whether you, like me, to be honest,  have simply deluded yourself into thinking  you're already managing it pretty well  because of how busy you are.  Let's get into it.  The first tip that I've got for you guys today  is to try using a time-tracking tool.  Now, I recently did a video on apps  that force you to work,  which listed several different options  in this category,  so I'm not gonna restate them all.  But what I do wanna do here  is give you a little bit of a deeper look  at one that I'm gonna recommend you  at least give a try,  and that is Toggle.  So unlike automatic time trackers like RescueTime  that just log the time you spend in each app  or program on your computer  and then give you a report at the end of the week,  Toggle is a manual time tracker,  which means you actually go into their dashboard  and record the time you spend  on each task throughout the day.  And the reason that I recommend  at least giving this tool a try  is that tracking your time manually  makes you think harder about it,  and you start to realize more accurately  how you spend your time on a daily basis,  and that lets you make changes going forward.  Within Toggle's dashboard,  you're gonna find two different modes,  manual mode and timer mode.  With manual mode,  you can record the amount of time you spent  on each task after the fact,  but what I'm gonna recommend you use instead  is timer mode.  This is a real-time method  where you hit a start and stop button  so you can be timing your work  as you actually do it.  And this has a couple of key benefits.  First, it's more accurate  since you are tracking time in real time.  You don't have to go back after the fact  and try to remember how many hours and minutes  you put into each task.  And secondly, and more importantly,  you'll be less likely to waste time or switch tasks  because you'll subconsciously want your time log  to accurately reflect what you actually did.  Now, long-term manual time tracking  like eating a bowl of nails in the morning  is not for everyone.  You might find that after you do it for a week or two,  you kinda wanna move on  and just not worry about it anymore,  and that's fine.  But I do think that doing it for a week or two  as an experiment is very useful  because it gives you a more accurate picture  of how you're using your time,  and it'll make you think a little bit more deliberately  about how you're gonna use it in the future.  Tip number two is to get clear on your priorities,  and to do this very deliberately.  Maybe even sit down and do it on a piece of paper  or write it in your journal  because when you aren't clear on your priorities  and what they represent on your schedule,  it can be very easy to take on too many commitments  and to become that overly busy person.  Now, I think prioritizing could be a topic  for a video all its own,  but I do wanna give you a couple of questions  that I ask myself whenever I'm trying to nail down  what my personal priorities are  and whether a new commitment is worth it.  Number one, to ask a very in-the-details type of question,  what does my schedule look like without this on it?  Answering this means taking a hard look  at my current list of commitments, my schedule,  how much free time I have,  and whether or not I'd be willing to give something up  to take on this new commitment or not.  And in addition to that question,  I also like to ask a more bird's-eye-view question,  which is when I'm on my deathbed,  will I regret not doing this?  And this is the question that actually got me  to finally start taking singing lessons.  And this could be a question that would also be useful  for getting over your fear to start doing things,  but as a time management question,  it can also be very useful  because it helps you to prioritize things  from a bird's-eye-view, from a life values perspective.  And if you wanna be really clear on your priorities  and on your values and on what you're doing,  it may also be useful to have a written record  of what you're doing at the moment  and to update it quite frequently.  And I actually do this.  If you go over to my website, collegeinfogeek.com slash now,  you can see what I'm doing and what my priorities  at least should be ideally.  All right, tip number three  is to learn how to batch your tasks effectively.  And batching basically just means  taking a bunch of your tasks,  bundling them together,  and knocking them all out in one session.  And when you do this, you free up lots of time  for more intense projects later on,  or if you're me, probably playing more Beat Saber.  But more importantly,  batching lets you take advantage of economies of scale.  When you decide to do a bunch of tasks in one big batch,  you eliminate a lot of the setup costs  that you would have to deal with  if you did them all individually.  Now, in terms of tasks that make good candidates  for batching, I'm gonna go ahead and suggest,  number one, any and all errands.  If it's a low-energy task  and you have to leave the house to do it,  go ahead and take care of all those  in one big batch in one afternoon.  Number two, tasks that require low mental energy  and that are done at home.  So cleaning things up, organizing papers,  fighting that ninja that's hiding in your closet,  clearing out your email inbox, all that kind of stuff.  And number three, any kind of small tasks  that surround your main work.  And for an example here,  every single time that I have to make a video,  I need to create a project over in Notion  with a sponsor tag and a publishing date,  and I also have to create a research document in Evernote.  These are little tasks that could be done  individually when I start the project,  or I could come up with 10 video topics in a row  and do all these things in one big batch.  Now, one little tidbit before we move on.  If you're already using Todoist or a similar task manager,  you may wanna start using their labels feature  as it can be very helpful for batching  since across all of your projects,  you can apply labels that correspond to, say,  your energy levels, like low, or medium, or high,  or the location at which a task has to be performed,  like home, or work, or an errand.  And then when you have time for a batch,  you can look at the label that's most relevant  to you right now and see what there is to be done.  Next up, we have to talk about  how to get better at saying no.  This is an integral skill in time management,  especially for people who are overly busy.  Those of us who are perpetually overcommitted  seem to be the kind of people  who just can't say no to new opportunities.  Whether they're people coming to us  because they want something from us, they want our help,  or whether it's something that just seems really cool  that we want to do.  Either way, we have to learn how to say no  if we wanna be able to prioritize the things  that are actually important  and give them the time that they deserve.  So how exactly do you get to the point  where you can say no?  Well, there are definitely tactics.  There are ways to gracefully let people down.  There are ways to sort of push off things  that you might wanna do for yourself.  But I think the first thing you have to do  is just become mentally okay with saying no.  And this can be hard.  A lot of times, saying no feels like letting an opportunity  slip through your fingers forever,  like you're only gonna get one shot  because this opportunity only comes once in a lifetime,  like having the ability to seamlessly integrate  Eminem lyrics into a video script,  which I didn't say no to.  But remember that every time you say yes to an opportunity,  you are incurring an opportunity cost  because the act of saying yes to one thing  means you are implicitly saying no to something else.  You have a limited amount of time, energy, and attention.  You can't devote it to everything.  And this can be a useful way to reframe your thinking.  Remember that every single decision you make  incurs an opportunity cost.  Now, that brings us to the question  of how to properly let people down if you have to say no,  because there is a graceful way to do it,  and then there is an abrasive way to do it.  You could just yell no,  and why would you ever ask me to do that in their face?  But you could also do it a little bit more tactfully.  And here's an example of how I personally do it.  So one type of opportunity  that I have deliberately chosen to say no to,  for the most part, is public speaking.  This is something that I do like doing.  It definitely can advance my career,  but I've realized that if I travel, if I speak,  if I take time to write talks,  I can't make as many videos,  and I can't do the other things that are valuable to me.  So nine times out of 10, when somebody reaches out to me  wanting me to go speak at their school or their event,  I have to say no.  My priorities dictate it.  But I try to say it in a way that respects the fact  that they even reached out to me  that says that I'm honored that they did so,  and that tells them I have other commitments right now.  I'm not saying no because I don't want to do it.  I do, but I have other priorities that I have to respect.  And you can also take it one step further  by trying to anticipate their next step,  and then trying to help out with that.  So if somebody comes to you with an opportunity  and you have to say no,  it's likely that they're gonna have to go to somebody else  or look elsewhere for a solution  since you can't provide it.  And if you have anything that you can do quickly,  again, that doesn't interfere with your priorities  or take too much time,  then anticipating that need of theirs  and trying to fill it  is going to help them along in their process,  but it's also going to make this interaction  a positive one even though you had to say no.  So to go back to my previous example,  if I get a speaking request and I have to say no to it,  I'm going to do so gracefully,  I'm going to inform them as to why,  but I might also follow that up with a recommendation  that they contact my friend Chris Bailey  over at A Life of Productivity  because I happen to know that he does take speaking gigs,  he's really good at it,  and his area of expertise is pretty similar to mine.  So even though I had to say no,  I might have been able to provide them with a solution.  And this practice,  the practice of anticipating the needs of the other person  when you say no,  or anticipating the next step in the conversation  is a very, very useful life skill to build.  So don't think of it just as a time management tip,  think of it as a life tip in general.  All right, we have arrived at what is possibly  my personal favorite time management tip,  which is to use the pressure created by deadlines  to your advantage.  A few years ago, I had to learn the hard way  just how useful deadlines are  and how terrible for your productivity  a lack of them can be.  So back in my junior year of college  during the first semester,  I was incredibly busy.  I had so many commitments.  I was an RA, I had a second part-time job,  I had classes, I had clubs.  Basically, I had very little time to work on my side project  which was my site, College Info Geek.  So second semester of that year rolls around  and I have the bright idea to quit basically everything  except my classes and devote the rest of my free time  to working on the blog.  And I thought that this would give me  so much more time and energy to get articles done  that I would basically triple my productivity overnight.  But instead, I spent most of that semester  playing Marvel vs. Capcom 3,  getting very few articles written,  and generally wasting a bunch of time.  And that experience taught me a very valuable lesson  which is that we need structure.  We need deadlines.  We need a little bit of a framework to operate within.  Otherwise, we just don't do anything.  We tend to take the path of least resistance.  Now, there may be some rare souls out there  who are so passionate about every single element  of what they do that they need absolutely no structure,  no deadlines, no nothing.  They just get up and work like a madman every single day.  But I'm not one of those people.  I love the work I do,  but I don't love every single element of it.  And I'm prone to procrastination unless I have a deadline.  It's like the ex-Navy SEAL Jocko Willink  always likes to say, discipline equals freedom.  When you have a little bit of discipline,  when you have a little bit of structure,  you're able to operate within that.  There are fewer decisions to make  and you have a little bit of time pressure  with which to get your work done.  And that actually gives you more free time overall.  So, if you work for yourself or your student  who has a lot of free time,  a lot of kind of flexibility with your homework,  I would encourage you to set some deadlines.  Maybe make some mini goals  within your task management system.  Give yourself a little bit of time pressure.  Now, speaking of deadlines,  one unspoken deadline that I do wanna remind you about  is the unknown amount of time  before somebody else out there goes  and grabs the domain name  that you are eventually going to want for yourself.  And that is why, as soon as you possibly can,  I would suggest you go over to Hover  and get your domain name.  Now, if you've been following College Info Geek for a while,  especially some of our career content,  you'll know that one of the most important things  you can do for advancing your career  and making connections  is building an online presence for yourself.  And one of the most integral parts of doing that  is securing a professional domain name for yourself.  This allows you to create a personal website  where you can have a portfolio  and also link out to your other social profiles.  Now, I was unfortunately born just a little bit too late  to get the domain that I really would have wanted,  which would have been thomasfrank.com.  But I was at least early enough to get thomasjfrank.com,  which is just about as good,  and which I used to create a portfolio website  that I shared with recruiters  and freelance clients in college.  So, if you don't wanna miss out on your chance  to get the best possible professional domain name  for your online presence,  then head over to Hover and get it today.  Hover is the best place on the internet  to get yourself a domain name,  not least of which because they have  over 400 domain extensions to choose from,  ranging from .com and .me to .ninja and .pizza.  And now you probably know which cartoon  I spent much of my childhood watching.  But beyond that,  they also have an incredibly streamlined sales process.  It is super easy to buy a domain.  There are no annoying upsells, no annoying pop-ups,  and if you have an account like I do,  you can literally get your hands on a domain  in less than 30 seconds, which is pretty cool.  And once you've got your domain,  Hover also has tools for easily setting up  a professional email address like mine,  which is thomas at collegeofgeek.com,  and you can also use their connect feature  to easily hook that domain up to website builders  like Squarespace and Shopify.  Of course, the best part is that if you go over  to hover.com slash thomasfrank,  which you will find in the description down below,  you can get 10% off of your first domain purchase.  So head on over there, get your domain,  and show your support for this channel.  Big thanks to Hover for sponsoring this video  and being a big supporter of the work that I do here,  and of course, guys, thank you as always for watching.  If you enjoyed this video and you found it useful,  then definitely hit that like button,  and you can also subscribe right over there  if you don't wanna miss out on new videos  when they come out every single week.  You can also click right there  if you wanna get a free copy of my book  on how to earn better grades.  Follow me on Instagram at TomFrankly,  or check out one more video on this channel  by clicking right there,  or smashing your face into your phone's home screen.  That works too.  Thanks so much for watching,  and if you wanna connect with me further,  I respond best to Morse code chest taps.  I actually have no idea what I'm doing right now. 