 Hey everyone, I wanted to make a quick video to talk about where I've been the last few years.  As you probably noticed, I haven't been uploading too much content and that's because behind the  scenes I've been really busy working on building my own company. And so I have two reasons for  making this video. First, I want to just show everyone what I've been working on and see what  you guys think. I'm really excited, it's been a lot of work the last few years and there's a lot  more work to still do but I want to start to share the journey. And then the second thing I want to  do is to kind of gauge you guys to see if you're interested to continue to follow me through this  journey. I've been really playing with the idea of making devlogs to walk through the process of  building an application at this scale and so that you guys can learn and participate more in the  process. So part of this video is to see if you guys would be interested in something like that  and if you are, definitely leave a comment and talk about that because that's going to be big  motivation for making these videos. So before I dive into what I've been working on and what's  going on, I want to quickly just talk about how I got to this point. So as some of you guys may know,  I'm a software engineer and I've been making programming videos and basically programming my  entire life. And a few years ago, I started playing around with the idea of starting a company and  I've always wanted to create a company. I've tried it many times in the past as well but this time I  wanted to build something that I was truly passionate about. Something that my entire life  I've been interested in making but I just always thought it wasn't a reality because it's so big  in scope and scale that I thought it would be infeasible to actually make. But a few years ago,  I decided that this is something that I'm passionate about. It's something that I would  love to see come to fruition and it's something that I know will make me so happy doing. So I  started it and I haven't stopped. And so today, what I'm about to show you is years in the making.  I'm just going to show you the website and we'll talk about the product but like I said,  if you guys are interested in seeing behind the scenes and going through this journey with me,  that's something I'm completely interested in doing. Okay, so what have I been working on?  That's the big question. So I've been working on building a company called Root and Root is a  social communication platform. So I'll give you a little bit of background. So it's a communication  app. For me personally, I've always had such strong passion for building applications that help people  communicate. I think communication and more specifically real-time communication is such an  interesting area of computer science and software development because it's such an amazing  implementation of seeing your code turn into something so useful and practical. So I've always  just loved voice communication apps and basically my entire life, even when I was a child, I was  always building voice communication apps because I thought it was so cool. So Root is a communication  platform in the social space and to give you some perspective, the other major application in this  space is an app called Discord. So if you're familiar with what Discord is, we're basically  building a communication platform at that scale and we're looking at opportunities where we can  innovate and improve which we think we've discovered a bunch of those where there's a lot  of areas in Discord that we can make better and that's what we've been doing for the last few  years. But just for setting the stage, Root is a communication platform for the social space. So  it's for when you're gaming with your friends or maybe when you have certain  hobbies you want to meet new people. It's not focused on enterprise. Enterprise communication  apps are apps like Slack and Microsoft Teams whereas Discord and this app, Root, are in the  social space basically when you're not working and you want to communicate and enjoy time in the  digital world. So I want to just scroll through the website, show you some of the marketing material  here and to help you basically learn what we're doing a little bit more and this is sort of  oriented towards people that maybe don't know what Discord is so this should hopefully  help and give some perspective. Also if you guys are interested in the future, I can make a  separate video diving completely deep into what are the differences between Root and Discord, what  are we trying to innovate on, what are we trying to improve on. I'll point out one in this video  but there are so many small and big things so we could make that a separate video. Okay so  I'll just scroll down and kind of just go through some of the sections here to help learn more about  what we're doing. So first, the first thing you should know is a platform like this is all about  communities. Whether you're a part of a community of gamers or maybe poker players or  chess players or bird watchers, whatever it is, platforms like this are all about community and  you can create communities where all of your friends or colleagues or whoever it is is in a  dedicated space for communication. And I mean that space could be public or private but you're in a  dedicated space for that topic. So for example, here I'm in a server or community called the  clubhouse so it's indicating it's just like a gaming or hangout area for some friends. You can  see on the left hand side these are the members of that community. In the middle column, these are  what we call channels. They're basically the dedicated areas to communicate. So whether you're  typing to friends or talking with your voice, there's voice channels and text channels and  other types of channels which I'll get to in a second. So this is the basic UI, sort of what  it looks like. I'll keep on scrolling down. Like I said, an app like this is all about communication  so you'll be able to have friends, you'll have a friends list, you'll be able to have direct  messages, make calls, private calls, all the fun things that you would expect from any communication  platform. I was kind of hinting at it but obviously it's all about communities and you'll be able to  have private communities or register your community as a public community and have people  join that community or go through an application process where they can request to join it  and you can discover new communities, etc. Scroll down. Obviously with communities and having  members a part of a group, you're going to need tools and services to help manage that. So  we have systems in place to help organize your community so that you can give people certain  permissions to do certain things and not or admins so all that functionality that you would expect  is there. This is one area I want to pause because this is one of the biggest differentiators between  Root and other platforms like Discord. So in reality, what we're calling the plugin system  internally, this will have a more official name one day, is something that we could make a full  blown video on and if you guys are interested we can because there's actually a lot of really cool  technology in this that hasn't really been seen before and fully implemented. Some companies have  tried it and been successful like Roblox I would say is the closest product that has a similar  plugin technology but apps like Discord, Teams, and Slack, they are not doing this. It's pretty  cool tech. So basically we know that as a Discord user or a communication user, communication is  extremely important and if you look at applications currently on the market like Discord, Teams, or  Slack, they offer a set of basic communication services so things like voice chatting, screen  sharing, or text chatting. These few primitive forms of communication is what these  platforms offer and that's great and they do a good job but the truth is in 2022 and in modern  digital technology, there are lots of ways to actually communicate in an online way. It's not  as basic as just typing a message or using your voice. There's so many different mediums of  communicating and so we knew right away when we're building this platform the goal from the start is  how do we build a platform that offers as many forms of communication as possible and allows  the platform to grow and introduce new forms of communication as time goes on. So scrolling  through these screenshots you can see a couple things. So first, imagine I'm a  member of a poker community and every weekend we like to get together and play some blackjack,  right? That to me, playing a game of blackjack with your friends is a form of communication.  It's not sending a message with text but you're interacting with other users in a real-time  fashion. That's communication to me. So why aren't other platforms supporting functionality like this?  So en route, you could hop into a game of blackjack in real time and play with your friends or maybe  you're a graphics designer and you want to get together with friends or co-workers and draw  together and work together on some sketch. Or what if you want to get together and watch  YouTube videos together or other things like that. And the truth is it goes on and on and on.  There are thousands of potential experiences. What if you wanted an experience where you can manage  issue submissions where if you have a large community and people are having problems they  can submit issues and you can have like a backlog and a management system that you can track  everyone and so on and so on. The point is there are so many forms of experiences and communication  that aren't supported on platforms. We wanted to build something that was extensible. So we built  a plugin system that allows developers to build brand new experiences en route that utilize our  infrastructure, our native infrastructure, so that they don't feel like separate applications.  So as a developer this means that if you're building an app en route you can build the  front-end experience. So for example you would be building the blackjack front-end experience  but we're also giving you access to write back-end plugins. So we have infrastructure  where you can write a back-end plugin that works with your front-end plugin to create a full-blown  real-time communication experience and all of this will utilize Root's native infrastructure  and network code. So as a developer you get to build network real-time apps but you don't have  to have any experience with building network apps and dealing with all the complicated networking  code because it's pretty complex and you get the benefits of scaling to millions of users without  putting any work into that. So this system is huge. I could talk about this so much I could go  through the architecture, I could show you real demos. There's a lot of cool things with this but  I don't want to spend too much time on it. If you have questions we can make a follow-up video.  Continuing down, we are building systems that Discord has not even seen yet. So things like  widgets where, you know, imagine you're part of a community that is hosting a Minecraft server.  It would be really cool where you could have that information readily available for all your  community members without having to dive into separate websites and this and things like that.  So we're investing time into cool tech like that and we're also making sure that customization  is kind of at the forefront of what we're doing. So being able to change colors, modify the UI  structure, pop windows out, all these different things like that. We're trying to make sure  that customization is a priority. So these are some of the things that we're thinking about right now.  There's so much I could talk about and so my ask to you guys is to start to provide  some feedback. Are you guys interested in seeing what this code looks like? What we're building?  Are you interested in me building dev logs where I walk you through some of the big challenges and  the remaining development journey? Because there is a journey ahead. It would be amazing if you  guys could join the waitlist if you're interested. So head over to the website. I'll put everything  in the description below. I'll link the website. I'll link our Twitter. It would be amazing if you  could go follow the Twitter. But yeah, I think that's it. I just wanted to gather some feedback  and I thank you guys for taking the time to listen. 