 Hi, I'm William Spaniel. Today we're going to start a new series of lectures,  this time entitled International Relations 101. You might think that I'm  an economist because I do all of these game theory videos, but that's actually  not the case. I am a political scientist and I specialize within political  science in formal models in relation to international relations. So rather than  doing pure mathematics in this series of videos, we'll be actually looking at  applying these sorts of theories into the realm of international relations. In  this video in particular, we'll focus on what we'll be covering in the next few  dozen videos over the next month or two months or three months, however long it  takes. So let's start talking about those things. So first we're going to start  with asking ourselves, what is international about international  relations? So we'll touch on concepts of sovereignty and anarchy, which separate  interstate action with intrastate action. And we're going to ask ourselves  specifically, why is international relations so strategic? And because it's  so strategic, it allows us to use these formal models, these game theoretical  models, to help us analyze it. But first we need to understand why we're able to  do that and why these things are so great for studying international  relations. And to do that, we need to understand sovereignty and anarchy. So  that's what we're going to start out with. Then we're going to move on to big  broad questions about conflict versus cooperation, and why is it so difficult  for states to work together, given the framework that we live in in  international relations, in this state of anarchy, as we'll call it. And  you'll see what that means shortly. And we're also going to see how future  punishment induces cooperative behavior today. This relates directly to the  concept of the prisoner's dilemma and repeated prisoner's dilemmas, and we'll  see that in action. Then we'll actually start talking about more specific things.  We'll get to the big, big thing that sort of overtook international  relations in 1995, which was an article by a professor at Stanford named James  Fearon, who wrote an article called Rationalist Explanations for War. And he  just asked a very simple question. If war is costly, why can't states settle their  differences at the bargaining table, given that it's going to cost both sides  something to fight a war? And in this article, he lays out this big  research question and then provides a few answers. He talks about preventative  war and preemptive war, and how asymmetric information incentives to  misrepresent can cause war and issue indivisibility. So we'll talk about this  war's inefficiency puzzle, as it's termed now, and how these four things at the  bottom of the bullet points can lead to states fighting over conflicts  rather than bargaining over them. Then we'll move and segue into international  trade and talk about why states should bother trading, why there is so much  trade going on in the world today, and why tariffs are hard to avoid, and how  does this international trade reduce the likelihood of war? So a little bit of a  mixed bag in dealing with international trade, but all very important issues.  We'll talk about how regime type matters. A lot of international relations work  does not focus on actually what goes on inside of a country, but just how states  should interact in a strategic setting without looking into those sorts of  things. But while that first avenue of research is very useful and very  relevant, it's also important to actually look within the state and see how  democracies might act differently than autocracies and so forth. And so just  the big broad question is how do domestic institutions affect  international outcomes? Speaking of institutions,  we'll also look at international institutions like the United Nations and  the World Trade Organization and the International Monetary Fund. We're going  to ask ourselves what these things do, and if they do anything at all, and what  sort of obstacles they have towards actually getting things done in the  international realm. We'll look at nuclear weapons. This is a big thing  going on right now with Iran and North Korea. We'll ask ourselves, is nuclear  proliferation actually a good thing? This is something that was debated heavily  during the Cold War, but it still continues to be an issue today. We'll  talk about mutually assured destruction, which was a doctrine that was also big  during the Cold War. And we'll go into depth about bargaining over nuclear  weapons, because after all, that's what's going on right now between the United  States and Israel and Iran, and also the United States and North Korea. We'll  conclude things with terrorism, which became something that was not too much  studied back before 2001, and then of course the September 11th attacks that  happened, and all of a sudden it became a really hot-button issue in international  relations. So we'll ask ourselves, can terrorists be rational, and why does  terrorism work? So that wraps up this summary of what we'll be covering in the  next few weeks, and I hope you'll join me in these videos, which will go into depth  and we'll use these formal models that we've been talking about in the past in  the game theory videos, and actually apply them to something relevant. So I  hope you join me then, and until then, take care. Bye. 