 Hey everybody, it's Katie from katiescrochetgoodies.com. Today I am here to talk to you about reading  patterns. This is something I have got a lot of requests on, and it's something that I  struggled with a lot as I was learning to crochet. So hopefully this video will help  you kind of figure out what you need to know and what's most important when you are learning  to read patterns. So I just printed one off here that's from my blog. It's a free one  I have on my blog for a newborn sock monkey hat. So I'll put the link to this actual pattern  in the caption below, so go ahead and check that out when you have a chance. So the first  thing to talk about is going to be the pattern layout, and each designer is going to have  a different layout, so each pattern essentially from each designer will look differently.  But once you get familiar with the important parts of a pattern, you'll be able to look  through it and find those pretty easily. So I put the size, I have my copyright up here,  I have more sizes of the hat for purchase, and then I have the gauge here that will show  it. We'll talk a little bit about that, but this is very, very important, and I'll be  doing a video on how to figure that out here shortly. But essentially it's going to tell  you if you're crocheting with the same hook and the same yarn that's called for in the  pattern, the only difference will be how tightly each person crochets, which can vary drastically.  So you want to make sure that you check that before you make the hat, or whatever item  it is, because if you don't and then you end up making it, this hat could turn out like  an adult size if you have really, really loose stitches and I may crochet way tighter.  So that's very, very important that you check that, because I've seen lots of people on  the internet talking about, I did this pattern and it's for this size and it turned out this  size, and a lot of times that's the problem. Or you're using a different hook size, or  a different weight of yarn, or thickness of yarn, which I also have a video on. So  another thing is going to be your materials, and then I have finished measurements just  so you kind of have an idea to make sure that you're in the ballpark right size once you  finish your hat. So we talked about materials, the hook size, and what type of yarn you're  using. Another thing is going to be abbreviations. This was probably the hardest thing. When  you're reading a pattern, it looks like gibberish until you figure out these, the abbreviations  that are used in the pattern. And each pattern will be different, and you need to make sure  before you start a pattern that you're familiar with all the stitches or abbreviations, that  you know these stitches well, and you've practiced them. And so when you run into DC, you know  that means double crochet without having issues or just getting overwhelmed, which will happen  at the beginning. It took me a long time to go through a pattern without reading like  CH, what is that? Chain. Okay, chain 4, SLST, what does that mean? Oh, slip stitch. So you'll  do a lot of that at the beginning, and there is no way around that. You're just going to  have to endure it until you kind of get the hang of it, and then after you figure that  part out, that was the hardest part for me was getting used to abbreviations because  it just looks craziness down here until you figure that out. But once you figure out abbreviations,  it's just like reading. So it's really, that's the hardest part I think. Let's see what else.  Working in the round is a little bit differently. So when you're making a hat or anything that  you're starting in the center, and then working your way out is going to be different than  just going through and going back and forth on rows if you're making say a blanket. So  you'll have a little bit different how you're starting each row I guess. So working in the  round, mine says this pattern is worked in rounds. Each round is joined with a slip stitch  into the first stitch from the beginning of that round, not the chain. So at the beginning  of each round in this pattern, what I do is I chain 2. Lots of people chain 3 with double  crocheting, but I have found that it looks like there's a gap there and you can kind  of see a hole. And I just don't like the look of it. It just, for me, my personal taste,  I don't want it to stand out. So chaining 2 seems to help with that for me. So at the  beginning of each row, I'll be chaining 2 and then I actually do my first stitch into  that first stitch that you're in when you chain, if that makes sense. So I chain 2 and  then I double crochet right at the bottom of that stitch. And then I go all the way  around and then at the end of the row, or the round I guess, I slip stitch to the top  of that first stitch that I had made from that round. So another thing to think about  is there's going to be different sections. So at the beginning, like how I had the abbreviations,  how to read this pattern, you have sizes, gauge, your gouged, your finished measurements,  your materials, that stuff usually is always at the beginning and then you'll go into the  actual instructions or the actual pattern. And then if there's a, if it's for an item  that has multiple pieces, I always break it down within the instructions. I have the instructions  for the hat, I have the instructions for the first ear flap, the second ear flap, the  mouth, um, what else? The ears, the eyes, the side braids. This one was a little bit  hard to explain in words, so I have a picture as well that kind of shows each step that  I talk about. And then, yes, pom pom for the top. And same with that, it was kind of really  hard to explain. I felt like I needed a visual when I was learning, so I made pictures for  those to make it easier. So it's all just going to depend on your designer and how much  detail they put into it. A lot of more experienced designers may not say things that seem really  like obvious to them, but to a beginner it's like you don't know what to do. Um, one thing  that I do want to address is, um, stitch count. So usually, I mean a lot of pattern designers,  I guess, at the end of each round or row, they'll put in parentheses how many you should  have at that point. And that's just something that makes it easier for people to make sure  that they're on the right track. And somehow it's something that I never used when I was  following patterns, so I kind of forgot that it even existed. And when I started writing  patterns down for myself, I didn't do it. And then when I started writing them up, I  never thought about it. And then a couple people have asked me, but, um, it's something  I should probably go back and do for all my patterns. It's just going to be extremely  time consuming, so I have not carved out any time to do that yet. But it is something that  I would like to do in the future. But I do have finished measurement sizes, so you can  kind of tell as well. And if you check your gouge, you should be fine. Um, another thing,  before you, um, if you're getting really confused on something in a pattern, and you've went  through and you've done this a million times, reading it, and then reading up at the abbreviations  and coming back, or if something just really doesn't make sense and you think it might  be a typo or something, um, then yes, contact the designer. But I would urge you, extremely  urge you to read the entire pattern at least once or twice, like literally every word in  the pattern before you contact designers, because I've had so many people contact me  about things, which is fine, um, but I would just urge you to make sure you read everything.  Just because a lot of designers have other jobs as well, like full time jobs. I'm a photographer,  and um, I do the blog and the crocheting and crafting, and um, it's a lot to keep up with  on top of regular busy life. So a lot of times I'll get a message, and I will admit it does  take me a while to weed through all of them, especially if I'm getting a lot at once. It's  like an overwhelming task to reply to them all that I don't get to right away. Um, so  make sure that you read everything in the pattern, um, before, just in case you miss  something, read it twice. Um, but reading patterns is really just going to take practice,  just like everything else. You're going to be confused at first. I would suggest starting  off with something simple, like this is probably not one that I would suggest for a beginner,  because there's so many parts and pieces to it. Um, but, uh, on my website I have, um,  oh goodness, I just lost my train of thought. I have a pattern for a flower beanie, so it's  very basic, and it has, um, just like a trim around the edges of a different color, and  then the rest of the hat is one color, and then obviously for boys you might not want  to add a flower, so then it's that much easier. So make sure you check out, um, my website,  katiescrochetgoodies.com. I've got lots of free patterns over there, and you can subscribe  to my YouTube channel so you can see future videos. I have a whole learning to crochet  video series, if that's something that, um, you might have an interest in, feel free to  check that out. Um, if you have any questions or concerns or anything that you think I should  make a video on, shoot me a message on, um, Facebook, or leave me a comment here. I'm  a lot better at checking Facebook, I'll tell you, um, because I'm hoping to make a lot  more videos like this one. Thank you, and have a great day. 