 G'day and welcome back to a Wimbledon video. This is for legal studies. It's a legal studies  teacher reads the news. Looking today at how we can incorporate a contemporary issue into  the preliminary course and specifically I'm looking at part three here, the law in practice.  This is a unit that's often kind of integrated in to the other two units. So you'll see here  the law and practice unit can be integrated to part one or two or treated as a separate unit.  I often like to separate them out and look at something kind of in a kind of complete  picture of, for example, law reform. We'll do a bit of law reform and we'll do lockout laws.  And so we've already done law reform as the unit part two and then part three we see it  as a whole unit and we look at lockout laws as that. But often what happens in legal studies  I find is that an issue comes to the table and we'll look at it in a class. And so this is an  example where you might do like a little micro unit. You might look at a lesson or two lessons  at an issue that is occurring as we speak. And this happened the other day when the Sydney  trains decided to not run. So it's the 21st of February 2022 and commuters get to the station  early or find out from the news that all of a sudden the trains aren't running. Now this causes  absolute chaos because of the day that it was. It was the first day that they had eased restrictions  of COVID in office buildings. So they're hoping a whole bunch of people would come into the CBD.  It was the first day of international travellers coming in from overseas. So a whole bunch of  transport required there. People trying to get to the airport. It was also the first day of uni going  back and school as well. A whole bunch of people obviously going to school. So it really was kind  of a combination of a whole bunch of things. And what we're seeing is the main transport system  of New South Wales, specifically Sydney, just not running. And looking at these first couple of  photos we see all of this. The station is closed. All train services have been suspended. Customers  urged to avoid travel where possible. Use alternative mode of transport and allow extra  travel time on other modes of transport. Now something like this has happened before. So  why was so much chaos caused this time? The answer is people didn't know it was going to happen.  So it's all well and good saying use alternative mode of transport. But if you rock up at the  station and you had no idea you needed to use alternative modes of transport, then you're in a  bit of a bother. It was raining. It was not a great day for it. And so here you see people stranded,  closed, waiting for buses, these kind of things coming up. And you'll note due to industrial action  due to industrial action. There it is. So what's happening here? What are we what are we talking  about? What is the issue? Well if we're looking at it from a syllabus point of view, this is a  challenge. It's a contemporary issue that has occurred and we want to have a think about it  in relation to what are the themes and challenges that can be incorporated into this topic.  So for example the responsiveness of the legal system in dealing with issues and we'll see where  that comes from. And the effectiveness of legal and non-legal mechanisms in achieving justice.  Now that sounds a bit flawed, achieving justice. What I'm basically talking about here is the idea  that the legal system is supposed to work in a certain way so that the society can function.  And that hasn't happened in this case. So if we're looking at it, we're thinking about here's a good  example where we can quickly have a go at evaluating the effectiveness of the legal response  to this issue. And the issue is industrial action. The issue is disagreement between those  running the trains and between the workers. And initially throughout the day what we had  was the Prime Minister and the Premier basically blaming the union, the Rail and Train Bus Union,  RTBU, and basically saying that they had decided to do action and city trains had no choice.  Because of this action that was undertaken they had to stop the trains. Now how much of that was  accurate? That's the question that we want to ask ourselves. And we hear from Seema Crystal here,  she's a Professor of Labor Law at, where is she from? Deputy Head of School and Deputy Dean of  the University of Sydney Law School. And she's here to basically give her opinion on this claim  that it was the fault of the union for the industrial action. Let's have a read of what  she's going to say here. On Monday morning Sydney woke up to public transport chaos. Train networks  closed down and a war of words between the government, city trains, and the unions over  the blame for this purported strike action. During the day it became clear the chaos stemmed not from  strike action but from a management decision to shut down the train network because of its  concerns that planned protected industrial action by the union would make the train network unsafe  to run. Okay, fair enough. We're still in this, it's industrial action. We're still in this idea  and just because the decision was made by management that makes it sound like they didn't  have a choice. She disagrees. Yet in January 2018 Dominic Perreté, as then New South Wales Minister  for Industrial Relations, sought and obtained an order under section 424 of the Fair Work Act  in the Fair Work Commission suspending proposed protected industrial action by the same union  citing the desire to avoid the very same chaos that just ended on Monday.  That proposed protected industrial action involving an overtime ban and 24-hour work  stoppage was suspended on the basis that it posed a threat to the welfare, life, health, and safety of  the population of Sydney and threatened to damage the economy. In other words, the Premier back when  he was in charge of industrial relations said this strike action you're planning is too dangerous  and therefore he went to the Fair Work Commission and this is why it's one of the mechanisms we have  and basically said to the judge we need to ban this and he was  awarded the decision. In his decision Senior Deputy President Jonathan Hamburger relied on  evidence presented by the New South Wales Government that the proposed action threatened  the welfare of New South Wales commuters including affecting students, those attending hospital, etc  and it would cost 90 million dollars. Now just four years later it appears that rather than  urgently seeking similar orders under section 424 of the Fair Work Act suspending the proposed  industrial action, management and the New South Wales Government opted to shut down the entire  transport network. So Shea's asking you to ask yourself now why didn't they do the  same thing again? If it was such a threat why shut it down with no notice whatsoever  and not take the action that you've already successfully taken years ago?  If as been claimed loudly by the media the proposed protected industrial action posed such a threat  to the safety of commuters on the Sydney Rail network that it necessitated shutting down the  network entirely, why weren't these claims put to the test before the Commission on Sunday night  in the urgent hearing listed at the request of Sydney Trains? So they literally had the same  hearing on the night before and did not put those claims that were successful last time to the test.  The rules Shea says around protected industrial action under the Fair Work Act are complex.  In essence the provisions allow for a level of industrial rough and tumble in the form of  protected industrial action. For employees this can span a range of conduct from refusing to wear  work uniforms or overtime or other bans right through to a total refusal to work or a strike  in the traditional sense. For management this includes the right to respond to such action  by employees through a lockout of their workers. In other words closing all the doors and saying  you're not let in, we're not paying you. All of this takes place in the context of bargaining  for a collective agreement to govern working conditions for up to four years, which is what  they're in the middle of. The ability of workers to take this action is highly constrained only  after a current agreement has expired, only after a strike ballot has approved the action and notice  requirements have been met and always with the possibility that the action might otherwise be  brought to an end through suspension or termination as happened. So note that what she's saying is here  you can't just call a strike the night before, that's not how it works, it's highly constrained.  Significantly the union in this matter had learned well the lessons of 2018 when they were cancelled.  The action proposed was carefully calibrated to avoid the kind of threat to welfare, health, safety  or life that would require the commission to make an order suspending it. The inability of management  clearly to articulate this threat and to seek an order on Sunday suspending the action on this  basis speaks volumes about the credibility of the claim itself and casts a serious cloud  over the necessity of the management's decision to shut down the network.  But now the management's withdrawn its work commission claim, what happens next? So note that  they had to claim in for the work in the commission, fair work commission and they  have withdrawn it since. The union's right to take protected industrial action is not suspended  and it insists the proposed action is safe. If it's genuinely not safe as claimed management  seek a suspension order under section 424 sending the parties back to the bargaining table.  Otherwise the union action will continue in accordance with the scheme of the act  and if management choose to shut down the network again it should own the decision for what it  genuinely is, and this is Shea's opinion, a lockout in support of its bargaining claims,  not an employee strike. To say otherwise is political spin. Okay so we've got this issue here  and Shea McChrystal knows all about the labour laws and how they work and it's very very clear here  that what has happened is actually a lockout not a strike. Why? Because the strike could not have  occurred due to the highly constrained kind of laws around that and at the same time  if it was as dangerous as claimed why didn't they put in the same action that they did four  years earlier and successfully stopped the industrial action. So that's kind of what we're  looking at here. Then we have a secondary issue which I'm not going to read out but basically  the premier was furious that he didn't know until the morning and what has ended up happening was  we've got an internal dossier collected of all the things that staff knew and this is basically  this question of who knew what when. Transport Minister David Elliott, unbelievably, came under  fire because he received a text message at 10.53 I believe it was on Sunday saying that if there  was disruption there'd be huge disruption. This is on top of news which has since come out that  studies were done to find out how much it would cost and how much disruption there would be  in the weeks before this. Then David Elliott went to bed with an inkling there was going to be  potential widespread disruption. Went to bed before any decision was made and only learned  the network had shut down when he woke up on Monday morning. Remember he is the minister in charge  so the decision has been made without him. The decision has been made by the head of  City Trains. He said yeah yeah I'll back this guy to make his decision but he was literally in bed  and didn't know until he woke up the next morning. So it's this question of competency  and this question of who knew what when and why is that important because if these guys are in  charge of the network and if it's actually a shut down and it's their responsibility  then there's gross incompetence in the running of the network and Australian citizens most  certainly Sydney siders should be absolutely ropable. Absolutely ropable that this has occurred  and so what you can do and I've done this with my class here this is him getting grilled on them  basically said to my class have a read through some of these articles then I want you to write  out an evaluative paragraph. I want you to pick one of these as a criteria and evaluate the  effectiveness of the legal system in responding to this issue of an industrial dispute between the  employers the RTBU and Sydney Trains and I created and I've shown this before I created a scaffold  where they basically say this is the issue this is the the problem that we've got and  and this is the criteria that we're using so some of them used responsiveness based on Dave Elliott  not responding well enough and to Sydney Trains not doing it others use meeting society's needs.  So this concept of if we're going to have huge disruption of a transport system that hundreds  of thousands of Australians use to get to work well then they need to have enough time to make  as was claimed make where are we alternative modes of transport and extra travel time so  and then they wrote those out sent them to me I had a look made some suggestions gave them some  feedback etc. So here's an example where students can in real time read an article and then have a  go at putting law into practice and thinking through who's at fault here how should it have  happened how do we evaluate the effectiveness and the ineffectiveness of responses to this  and then we can go into much greater detail if they so desire thinking through this process  the Fair Work Act and industrial action etc. All right so hopefully that's a helpful  a little example of what you can do in legal studies using information that comes out in real  time as kids are experiencing this they're seeing that legal studies is a subject that deals in  real time and deals with issues that are happening as we speak one of its greatest things going for  and something that engages students greatly. 