 Welcome to our PicMonic webinar series. PicMonic is a powerful multi-sensory study tool to help  you remember all the information you need to know in nursing school fast. This pre-recorded live  webinar will be a three-part series on pharmacology. But before we get into it,  make sure you head to picmonic.com to sign up for a free account. That way you can reference the  PicMonics that are talked about in the lecture and continue to use PicMonics to memorize all  the topics through to the end class. Now let's join Dr. Wyatt as he teaches us about pharmacology.  Today we're going to talk about pharmacology and really just knowing your endings. This webinar is  going to be in three parts. Part one, part two, part three. That means three parts. And we're  going to kind of talk about different sections in each part. The first part is really kind of how  to get started and go over the high yield like hypertensive drugs. The next part, second part,  is antibiotics. And third part really is just kind of a hodgepodge of other drugs kind of mixed in  there. So let's go and get started. Excuse me. First off, my name is Kendall Wyatt. I am the  PicMonics content director. So I manage all the content for everything. I started out as a  paramedic, went to nursing school, then went to med school, just finished up. But so that's  enough about me. You don't need to know about my stuff. PicMonic takes everything you need to know  in nursing school and turns it into fun images. So nursing school, med school, PA school, basically  anything medicine. So if you had a bipolar disorder, you could remember it with something  like this bipolar bears, which is really handy. We cover lots of different topics for all the  things you need to know. So first off, when we talk about this topic today, it's kind of what  are we going to do? We're going to talk about medication endings and some antihypertensives  in part one. And like I said, part two is antibiotics. Part three is just going to be  some other medications kind of in a hodgepodge. And of course, as always, I always have my little  magic cup here. One, because my mouth gets dry. Two, because I make three cents every time I  shove that off. So whenever you do pharmacology, it's really important not to really drive the  home, but it's a lot of memorization. There's tons of medications, so many things to remember. And I  can tell you, you can maximize what you're learning just by learning the drug endings. And that's  really what we're going to talk about today. All of the images and everything you see in our  presentation today are all included on Picmonic's website. You can sign up for a free account at  picmonic.com, and there's some links down below. So we're going to talk about, you know, there's  so many different medications. We're going to talk about how to identify drug endings and memorize  those. And then what you really want to know, we're just memorizing really key points. You don't need  to, at least in the nursing level, to master every single tiny little detail. And you don't need to  focus on the big things like, does this medication cause nausea or vomiting? Well, almost every  medication can cause nausea or upset stomach or GI distress or diarrhea, constipation. But you  want to remember the obscure things. Does this medication cause a bowel ileus? Does this medication  cause projectile vomiting? Or does it cause a cough? What are the key ones or the signs and  symptoms or the side effects, rather, of that particular medication? That's what's really  important. When you look at pharmacology and drugs, you need to remember, again, key points.  We're going to talk about drug endings today. You need to know the mechanism of action. So depending  on what level you're at, if you're, you know, still starting out, you don't need to know great detail  on physiology and tiny mechanisms of action. But if you're at a higher provider level or med school  or MP, PA, you really need to know those mechanisms of action and all the physiology behind it.  You've got to know why you're given the drug indication and those side effects, of course,  remembering high yield, key facts, side effects. That's what's important. Considerations are just  extra things, some things we're going to talk about today and so that you can remember,  because they're important things you need to tell your patients.  So let's get started with part one. Part one, we're really going to talk about mostly  antihypertensives. We're not going to talk about every single one, but really the highest yield.  If there's one thing you must know, no matter what level you're at, you've got to know every  detail about these medications. There's no skipping here. So antihypertensives, we've got  our ant wearing a tie with our hiker BP character for antihypertensives. And everything you're going  to see here is consistent. Now, the first one I like to always start off with is one of my  favorites. It's beta blockers. Beta blockers, as soon as I say beta blockers, you should say beta  blockers. You should say beta fish, right? And we've got here our character, which is a blue  beta fish. Beta fish. Now, the way we're going to talk about staying in line are beta blockers,  knowing the drug ending. Well, beta blockers always, a few rare exceptions, and for good reason,  end in O-L-O-L. So O-L-O-L, you need to remember that. Well, I like to remember here at Pygmonic,  we have our blue beta fish sitting on these blocks for beta blocker. And then we've got,  of course, licking a lollipop, a fish with lips licking a lollipop. Oh my goodness, I know,  it's just great. I love our little beta fish here, so cute. But just by learning that right there,  you can learn tons of different beta blockers. There's so many different ones. Look at this  list of beta blockers here. There's so many different ones. And there are a couple of  key ones that end in A-L-O-L, which means they have alpha blocking capability as well. But  that's not what we're going to stick with today. Learning this, you can immediately learn a beta  blocker. Now, there's one thing you should be thinking about. When I say beta blockers,  what do you need to be thinking about when I say beta blockers? What is the one thing you need to  monitor or worry or watch for when I say beta blockers? I say beta blockers. You say heart rate.  That's right. You really got to worry about monitoring the heart rate because beta blockers  cause a beta block. And one of the things where we have a beta receptor block is for heart rate.  Now, here's our beta blockers, Pygmonic. You can learn this inside of our learning system.  Lots of different things here. But beta blockers, again, a beta fish on blocks with a lollipop,  to remember that ending. We use beta blockers for hypertension or hyper BP, heart failure,  and angina, our little angel guy here. So you can remember that. And what you need to do is  always check the heart rate. Now, I always get a nurse that would come to me and say,  well, if I get a low heart rate, I can't tell that patient not to take their medication. And  you're right. At the nursing level, you can't say stop taking your medication. But you can tell them  to hold a dose and you can notify the provider. Anybody who's a practitioner would just say,  stop the medication. Or maybe we need to lower the dose or switch you to a different type of  medication. All of these medications, beta blockers, there's a big one. What do we need  to monitor for? What do we need to be worried about with a patient who's on beta blockers?  Well, we need to be worried about the fact that heart rate, number one, but also be worried about  the fact that beta blockers can mask the signs of hypoglycemia. So we've got our little masked  hippo glue bottle right here inside of Picmonic, just a little cute little nugget right there.  And what are those signs and symptoms? Well, beta blockers block beta receptors. And when  they block beta receptors, they prevent the release of epinephrine. And that prevention  of epinephrine, when you get a low blood sugar, your body throws out a bunch of epinephrine. And  when it throws out that epinephrine, it causes those systemic symptoms. What are they? Well,  that's going to have a little bit of tachycardia, which is beta blocker blocks. You're going to have  a little bit of sweating, a little bit of diaphoresis. And you're not going to get  those symptoms without that epinephrine because of the beta blocker. So it masks those signs of  hypoglycemia you need to remember. Also important not to give a beta blocker in a patient with a  heart block. We've got our heart with blocks here wrapped in caution tape. Or for asthma,  because it can cause bronchoconstriction. Just important points. All of the drugs,  almost every drug really, you never really want to stop them cold turkey. And all these ones we're  going to talk about, you'd want to taper them down or switch them to another medication. In general,  it's a bad idea to stop any medication right away. But there's a couple that you need to remember to  taper as well, like steroids. So let's get started with the next one that I like. And that's ACE  inhibitors. ACE inhibitors, angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors. Now, if you don't understand  the renin-angiotensin system, well, I'm sorry. No, I'm just kidding. You can go check out our  other webinar. We've got one on renal or lots of picmonics on renal. Tons of different things  help you learn all those and all the drugs. But we're just going to talk about ACE inhibitors  first. ACE inhibitors. Now, ACE, angiotensin converting enzyme, is in the lung, right?  That's right. Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors prevent the conversion of angiotensin  one to angiotensin two. So when I say ACE inhibitors, here we've got our wonderful  little character, our ACE card with inhibiting chains. And we've got what? Well, we've got our  little pearls because ACE inhibitors end in pril. That's right. So ACE inhibitors end in pril. So  we've got the fun little pearls here with our ACE card with inhibiting chains. I mean, little  ACE card just got the little chain there. Poor little thing. Anyway, so ACE inhibitors, you need  to remember pril, P-R-I-L. So you're going to learn lots of different ACE inhibitors just by memorizing  the drug ending. But if I say ACE inhibitors, the first thing that should roll out of your mouth is  what side effect do we have to watch for right away? I mean, it should be at the tip of your  tongue. You should be spitting it out. Cough. That's right. Cough. A dry cough. ACE inhibitors,  because of the inhibiting ACE, it also inhibits bradykinin. And bradykinin basically causes a  decrease of secretions or a decrease. It allows for irritation basically in the throat and can  cause this dry cough. That's a number one reason we need to look for. It's a very high yield  question. And we'd want to switch them to another type of medication. A really common thing is a  patient who has an ACE inhibitor, if they get that dry cough, we're going to switch them to another  medication. But before we do that, let's take a look at our ACE inhibitor picmonic. So you can  take a look here. Here's our ACE card. Again, our little Rennin wrench character and our raspberries  for an angiotensin system. But what are the other side effects of ACE inhibitors? Well,  anytime you give an ACE inhibitor, an antihypertensive, you worry about the opposite  effect of what you're giving it for. So you may have hypotension or hippo BP. There's that coughing  coffee pot right there with his dry mouth to help you remember. Cough for ACE inhibitors with pearls  on the table for prill. Other things we see are hyperkalemia, our hiker banana character,  and sometimes we'll see angioedema, but not so common with ACE inhibitors.  Other thing we're going to see with ACE inhibitors is a first dose effect. So very first dose. So  here we've got our slow turtle standing sort of slow position changes because you get that first  dose effect where you may have a little bit of syncope on rising. So you want to tell them to  raise that real slow. The next medication type after ACE inhibitors, if you had an ACE inhibitor  and you needed to switch, you're going to get switched to an ARB or an angiotensin receptor  blocker or angiotensin 2 receptor blocker, which is why we call them ARBs. It's such a mouthful,  so many, so many words. So ARBs are another type of medication and you need to remember those by  ending by what drug ending? Well, sartin, low sartin, candesartin, valsartin, omelsartin,  or whatever other sartins they make. There's too many. They're going to make some new sartins  tomorrow and you're just going to have to remember that one too, right? No, you're going to be able  to just remember the drug ending. I don't know of any other sartins that aren't angiotensin receptor  blockers. So easy to remember. And you can remember this with this crazy image here of our  angel tennis receptor blocker here, angel tutu wearing receptor. My mouth is so tongue-tied  but this angel playing tennis with her little receptor blocks and she's wearing a tutu,  so for angiotensin 2 receptor blocker. But most importantly, you can remember this little  Spartan character that he's playing with to help you remember sartins and that's what's  really going to help you. So you can remember those endings. Now, when I say angiotensin  receptor blockers or ARBs, what's the thing you need to worry about, that side effect on the tip  of your tongue? Well, the first one, the big one we see a lot is really just remembering angioedema.  So angioedema, possible with ACE inhibitors, yes, but very possible with angiotensin receptor  blockers. And here we've got our little angel edamame with lips. See that edamame little  thing right there, just so cute and big. Why are we doing that? Well, because that's what  usually where you see angioedema. You usually see it in the lips. It's usually swelling in the lips  and you end up with those. That's right. You're not going to forget that, right? I know.  Yeah, I know. Just play it back and watch it again and again. I don't mind. Anyway,  that's what you worry about, angioedema, that swelling and dilation of the face,  a medical emergency for sure. Of course, other things, we worry about a lot of these types of  medications because we don't want to use them in pregnancy or they're cautioned in pregnancy  for sure. Definitely a second line medication. Or renal artery stenosis. Here we've got our little  stone kidney vessel character for renal artery stenosis. Now, the next medication type I want  to talk about, another type or class of medications are calcium channel blockers.  I love calcium channel blockers because I just love this cute little cow.  But anyway, calcium channel blockers, there's several different types. I'm going to talk about  those in a sec. But calcium channel blockers, as far as an antihypertensive, you need to remember  the dipines, nifedipine, amlodipine, nifedipine. That's right. You need to remember those right  there. Now, with those, you can remember the dipines, calcium channel blockers, and you can  remember that those, this little cow character, right? Our calcium calcified cow with these  little blocks. And of course, they're dipping their little chips. So, dipines, you can help  remember. So, the big thing to know with these is that when we talk about calcium channel blockers,  especially if you're super smart, you would say, oh, well, that's not the only type of  calcium channel blocker. I'd say, oh, well, that means you're right. You're so smart.  So, there are three different classes of calcium channel blockers. There's the ones for  hypertension, which are the dipines, the dihydropyridines. You don't need to know that  dihydropyridines so much. But they're just the dipines. The other ones are the phenylalkamines.  The phenylalkamines are verapamil. That's another one you've probably heard of. And the  benzothiopines, which is diltiazem. Now, why do we use, why is there three different classes?  Well, the easiest way to remember is that the dipines are for hypertension and that,  those are definitely vasoselective. Whereas, verapamil and diltiazem are cardioselective  or cardioselective and vasoselective. You know, they work on cardiac and the vessels,  but mostly cardioselective. So, they're going to work on the heart. So, why do we use diltiazem?  Oh, I just don't know. I just can't remember. I just, I've got this diltazer and this v-wrapper  in this, in this image. I just don't know why we use it. Well, that's why we have big monics.  They help you remember everything. Diltiazem is a cardioselective calcium channel blocker.  We block calcium channels. We stop excitability. We slow it down. We calm it down. Calm down,  calcium. You don't need to get so excited. Getting all those channels excited. So, we usually see  diltiazem used in atrial fibrillation for rate control. Verapamil, we see often sometimes used  in the same type of way. And of course, the dihydropyridines, the dipines, we use for  blood pressure. I'm so tongue-tied today. Probably because I'm talking so fast,  but luckily you can just play it over again. Anyway, here's our calcium channel blockers  picmonic. So, we've got our diltazer and our v-wrapper up here at the top with this  calcified calc blocked. Now, when I say amlodipine, nifedipine, and I talk about one  of those calcium channel blockers, what's the number one side effect you should be looking for?  Especially, no matter what level you're at, you should be looking for this common side effect.  What is it? Oh my goodness, I don't know. Hypotension? No, that's not the one I'm  going to be trying to give you. That's the easy answer. If I'm giving you a medication  for blood pressure, obviously a side effect is low blood pressure. Duh, right? That's not the  one you're going to get. You're usually going to get peripheral edema. We see it all the time,  peripheral edema. If you're on a calcium channel blocker for hypertension and you end up with this  constant peripheral edema or edema in the legs, it's probably because of the calcium channel  blocker. Super common. See it all the time. Now, the other one that we see, when we use  diltiazem or especially verapamil, verapamil by itself usually causes what? Verapamil, we see,  causes constipation. That's another side effect. We've got the little CortCon toilet here inside  of our image, and gingival hyperplasia. The only other time you see gingival hyperplasia,  you should be thinking about seizure-type medications. That's right. Of course,  any type of calcium channel blocker can slow the heart rate down, but you want to worry about with  those dihydropyridines. You want to worry about that peripheral edema, because that's really  common. Now, the next thing I want to talk about are loop diuretics. Now, I'm not going to talk  about all the types of diuretics, because we've got that literally in our renal webinar. There's  a whole ... We go through every single one of them, but we're just going to talk about loop  diuretics first. Now, loop diuretics are fun, because we've got our di-rocket spewing out urine  or yellow fluid. If you don't want to say the word urine out loud, if it makes you nervous,  or you just say poop or something, and then you freak out, maybe you go to a naughty place or a  bad place in your mind. You're just in the fetal position crying. But anyway, loop diuretics.  Here we've got our loop hin. Now, what's important? Now, really, this is kind of a  stretch for us on the ending, because it's not really a drug ending for all loop diuretics,  but I just want to talk the few ones you're going to get. You're going to see semide,  S-E-M-I-D-E, and that's where you've got furosemide and torsemide. I've got these other  two here in red, because they're different. But furosemide, or Lasix, don't use that  trade name. Always remember the generic name. Always remember that, really important.  So we've got our loop di-rocket hin on this semi-truck spewing out urine. And why is it  spewing out so much urine? Because loops are very powerful diuretics. Now, just really quick,  ethocrinic acid. I mean, that's such a weird one. Well, let's just talk about why you need  to remember the different one. Why is ethocrinic acid, why is it different? Because it's spelled  differently? Because it's two words? I mean, I don't know. Well, the reason is because  ethocrinic acid is literally a loop diuretic, but it's the weird one. Remember, it's a weird  name, and it has a weird name for the reason, in my opinion. And I remember that as a weird name,  because it doesn't have salt. You can give it to a person with a sulfa allergy. There's no  sulfa allergy interaction. Whereas loop diuretics, you can't give to a patient who has a sulfa  allergy. Really common question we see. So here's our loop diuretic picmonics. Now,  I'm not going to go through each of the details, but there's a couple of really important points  when we talk about giving loop diuretics. The first off are that when we give any diuretic,  it basically makes you pee a lot, right? I mean, you're urinating more. And when you're  urinating more, you're losing more things. Now, I always love loops lose everything.  And when I say loops lose everything, I mean you're peeing out all those electrolytes.  You're peeing out everything. And what's that little, volatile, scaredy electrolyte that just  gets so scared and gets all out of whack every single time? Which one is it? Oh,  a scaredy electrolyte. I don't know. Potassium. And I always just like to remember potassium.  Potassium's in bananas. Bananas go so bad so quick. You know a weirdo that doesn't like to eat  a brown banana. Actually, I do. It's Marley. She works here at Picmonic with me,  and she loves brown bananas. What a freak. Who wants to eat brown bananas? Oh, you can send  them here to the Picmonic office, and Marley will eat them if you get some brown bananas.  Fine. Anyway, with that, little volatile electrolyte. And with that, you pee out  extra potassium. We see it with loops. But loops lose everything. Remember that. Loops  lose everything. So you're going to pee out potassium first. It's going to be the first  one you're going to pee out because it's a scaredy electrolyte. Then you're going to see  loops losing calcium. That's really, really important. Loops lose calcium. So loops lose  calcium. Why do I tell you that? Well, it pees out everything because I'm going to talk about  the difference in a second. Now, with loop diuretics, if you're giving them for a long  period of time or a high-dose IV, what do we worry about? What's a thing we're going to be  watching for? We're going to be watching for, looking for out there, like, what's going on?  I don't know. Well, we're going to be watching for ototoxicity. I'm going to pull my shirt down.  Sorry. Ototoxicity. Ototoxicity. What does ototoxicity mean? Toxic ears? Yes, we've got  our toxic green glow here inside of our pygmonic. But you're going to be worried about tinnitus or  ringing of the ears. That's going to be that sign for a patient who's on potassium. I mean,  sorry, a loop diuretic drip or getting a high-dose IV. So with all this, lots of things to go with  loop diuretics. What's the big thing we're going to worry about next? What's the next type of  diuretic we want to talk about? Well, that's going to be thiazide diuretics. Now, we're going  to talk about thiazide diuretics at the second, but remember that thiazide diuretics are different  because they don't lose calcium. That's why we remember, if you remember that loops lose  everything, loops lose calcium. So you have hypocalcemia, whereas thiazide diuretic,  no change. So that's it for part one. We're really just moving straight on to part two.  It's no different for me, but if you're switching videos, you need to switch over to part two.  Make sure you subscribe to the channel. Make sure you click over to get to the next video.  Just make sure you just show us some love. That completes part one of our pre-recorded  pharmacology webinar. In this first part, we learned about hypertension medications,  beta blockers, ACE inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor blockers, calcium channel blockers,  loop diuretics, loop diuretic education, sulfa allergies, potassium, and calcium. Check out  the playlist of those 10 picmonics in the summary below. Then click the other link below to watch  part two at picmonic.com with your free account, where we learn about antibiotics. See you there! 