 Welcome back to the bunker. Today I work on some gears. I have to modify some gears. These  are already modified and I have to cut two new gears. So we start by modifying these  two gears. The gears themselves already were commercially bought, readily hopped gears,  but they have to be modified. They had to be bored out and later we will drill a bolt  hole circle. And we need to cut this gear from scratch out of 42 chromoly 4, a preheat  treated steel. 4140 HT in the ANSI world. And I already did a test part in Delrin because  that was the material I had at hand. And I just wanted to see if a 9, there is a minimum  number of teeth that a gear can have. And 9 is definitely very, very close to that number.  The gear cutter I use is a number one cutter. I will talk about that later. And that usually  does only a 12 or 13 teeth gear, not a nine. But this is for a prototype and has to be good  enough. So it seems to mesh, it meshes nicely, it rolls, rolls off the other gear nicely. The  profile will not be ideal. So let's start at the beginning. First we look at these gears in an  un-machined state. Modifying a commercially bought gear. These are soft, soft steel gears,  hopped gears from a supplier. And it's always a good idea with externally sourced gears to check  if the pitch circle diameter runs true to the feature that you're about to machine. In this  case, I want to use the center bore as a reference for indicating on the lathe. So I put a 12  millimeter dowel pin in here. That's a very close fit, almost a press fit. Rested it on two V blocks  and I take a four millimeter dowel pin, which hits on the flanks of the gear teeth. And I'm  using an indicator in my height gauge to check the run out. I zero the indicator out on top  dead center of the pin in one position like this. And I mark the spot as zero. And I spin it about,  let's go for 90 degrees. Go 90 degrees, replace, reseat the pin. And do the same thing again. And  this is also zero. So, so far it looks quite promising. I had cases where on commercially  sourced gears, the pitch circle diameter was not running true to the bore. Those cases you have to  be very careful and indicate or hold the gear on the pitch circle diameter. Okay, this is this is  minus 10, means 10 microns. And last one. This is minus 15. So we have a total indicator reading  of 15 microns, zero to minus 15. That gives us an overall eccentricity of about seven microns.  And that that's pretty decent. For further application this gear is going on. That's way  good enough. Here we can see the pin hitting on the flanks of the gear of the space between the  gear teeth and indicator tip riding over the over the pin. When we look closely at this gear, we  notice and we have tool marks in here on the teeth, on the sides of the teeth, but also on the top on  the crown of the teeth. That means these gears were cut with a cutter that forms not only the the  tooth gap in between and the tooth itself, but also the OD of the cutter in one pass. Like a full  profile threading insert that also cuts the diameter of the thread. That means the OD of this gear should  run true to the pitch circle. Let's check this. Yeah, and now it goes slightly into minus matching  my reading on the pitch circle diameter. So that's a that's a pretty darn good gear for. These are  very reasonable priced hopped gears. No high precision gears. In some cases you will see gears  that are only machined that are only hopped or form cut on the gear teeth itself inside here.  The crown of the teeth, the top, has still tool marks from turning them. Then usually,  depending on how good the part was indicated, the OD does not run true to the pitch circle. So  careful there. We could take this gear now in soft jaws and just hold it on the OD and that would be  perfectly fine and run true to the pitch circle diameter and true to the bore. So that that's  quite nice. But I want to hold this gear down here on this diameter and the sixth jaw. So let's bring  indicator down and check this too. And that's a case where we have to be really really careful.  We can hold it on this diameter but we cannot indicate on here because this does not run true  to the bore, the OD of the gears or the pitch circle. So we're going to hold it on here and  indicate either a dowel pin in the bore or just the OD of the gear. In this case I think I will  go for the OD of the gear. This is like almost 50 microns, 40 to 50 micron. That's a little bit  much. I'm not going to do it like that. I indicated the gear on the OD of the teeth using the set  through of the sixth jaw chuck. And when I jump from teeth to teeth I'm within the 10 micron  range that I had on the surface plate too. Not looking too bad. Now we'll just do a last double  check with a pin in here. There we go. Top that center. Zero. Turn it by 90 degrees roughly.  Indicate again 10 micron plus 90 degrees.  Slightly below zero.  And again about 10 micron. So I can be relatively safe now that this gear is  running as true as it gets given the inherent tolerance that's already built into the gear.  Double-check my thickness here.  About 20 micron below nominal. That's perfectly fine. Now we need to get a boring bar in here.  So we have a nice 12 millimeter CCMT boring bar here.  It's a little bit large for a 12 millimeter starting hole. So I'm pulling the tool a little  bit above center so I can take a first roughing pass and widen the bore to get the boring bar in.  Okay. I hand feed the first roughing pass to get an idea of how the tool behaves.  Now I can drop it down to its normal center height. I'm running through tool air here.  This is a small ball valve with a 2.7 millimeter air coupler and I threaded my boring bar in the  backside also for a 2.7 millimeter air hose fitting or air coupler fitting and I can just  hook this up. Turn this on and I have air through the tool. The boring bar is already pre-drilled  all the way through and has a channel opening here directly blasting at the insert. Normally  this is used for coolant but especially on steel dry cutting with compressed air to get rid of the  chips works helps a lot. At first I set this up. I saw this in a friend's shop. He has a wonderful  shoveling 102NVM lathe and he has the same setup and I thought it's quite nifty so I copied it for  myself. That's very helpful. I think we can power feed it now and also increase the speed. Let's see  this is about 15 millimeters. So we want to run about 150 surface meters and we have a diameter  of 15 millimeters so we have a speed of 3,000 rpm. That's a little bit much. This lathe does  only go to 2,000 so we go to 1,800 because I don't want to spin it that fast with this part here.  Okay that works exceptionally well. The chips get blasted right through the spindle bore out  the other end and hitting my milling machine. It seems like I can take a depth of cut of one  millimeter with this boring bar in the current speeds and feeds without having the lathe explode.  So I'm not going to use this flimsy boring bar for final cutting. I'm going to use this  20 millimeter DCMT boring bar in a large heavy-duty boring bar holder that I made  recently. The boring bar, not the boring bar holder. That's a commercial one.  So you saw that I went to quite a bit of trouble to make sure that  the pitch circle of these gears runs true to the bore that I put into the parts.  I'm quite happy about the finish. These are C45 steel which is a 0.45 percent low alloy carbon  steel or a plain carbon steel. I have these two done. I only need some drilling but we will do  that later. Now we have to talk about this thing here. This is going to be the small pinion for  these large gears and I'm not too happy about cutting a nine teeth gear but that's what we have  to do. This is the the 3d model the customer supplied. I pulled the drawing off the 3d model.  I also pulled out all the important drawings and we'll go over to the milling machine because I  already prepared the blank on the lathe out of 4042 chromo 4. Here is the setup.  Walter UTA 80 dividing head held in the vice. I have the original Walter small diameter 3d  jaw chuck on here. It runs reasonably true. It runs really decent with some tweaking.  Runout out here is basically zero and this is the blank I prepared. We're going to cut both gears at  once back to back. One gear here and one gear here. I machined this section here with a part off blade  and that means that we have to cut only one gear. Then we put this back in the lathe,  indicate it true and then part it off in the center. Then we grab it on this short section here  and bore them. At the very end we have to even put a key slot in them.  So these are fairly integrated parts. This is the module two number one gear cutter  out of soviet production as I learned recently. Not even high speed steel,  this is just tool steel so we have to be reasonably careful not to burn it up.  I regrind this. The last video I did or one of the last videos I did is showing how to regrind a  relief turret gear cutter. How do we get the cutter on center line? Well that's not too  complicated. We drop it onto a known diameter like this small diameter here. We touch off on here  very lightly and we zero out the DRO.  I mic'd this cutter. It's eight millimeters thick so we drop down four millimeters. That's  half the thickness of the cutter and then we drop down half this diameter.  This is 12.9 so we drop down 6.45 and now we're on center line. Assuming that the profile on the  cutter is ground center to its thickness but at some point I have to take assumption and when I  line up the one of the tips of the cutter with the with the face with the central knob of the face  turned part it lines up very close so that's good that's our that's our depth that we're going.  We're going to conventional mill means cutter goes in this direction and spins  as usual. I don't dare to do a climb cut with such a large profile cutter. That's a lot of  resist the cut force and we'll probably end up in a crash so we're not going to do that.  We want nine teeth and our indexing head is 40 to 1 so we put 40 up here divided by 9.  We don't have a that's basically 40 holes on a nine hole index plate. We don't have a nine  hole index plate so let's multiply this by two and it's 80 18 so 80 holes on an 18 hole bolt  hole plate. I don't have that either but I have a 27 so 9 times 3 is 27 and 40 times 3 is 120.  So we have to go 120 holes on a 27 hole index plate. 27 fits into 120 four times and gives us  108. The rest 120 minus 108 is 12. So we go four full full rotations on the hand crank  and 12 holes on a 27 hole index plate. Easy, huh?  Okay to get our angular division we have to do four full revolutions one two three four  and then one two three four five six seven eight nine ten eleven twelve down here.  And as you can see I already set the sector arms so I don't have to do the  all the the hole counting all the time. I go to the last hole before I hit the sector arm.  That's my position. And then do not forget to move the sector arms up against the index pin  again. Just spin it over and then you can start again. One two three four and 12 holes.  So  so  okay that was quite a lot of milling especially as this is the second part I made.  That's right I messed one up. Here's the first one and usually when you mess up an indexing job  it's because you actually messed up the indexing itself. You miscounted, you skipped a turn on the  hand crank or something like that. But in this case it was something really stupid.  The lock of the quill was not tightened properly and the quill creeped up  about one millimeter during one of the passes. And when you measure the thickness of the teeth  there is a difference of quite a lot like two point point two millimeters from tooth to tooth.  So I noticed that, took the part out, goes in the shelf of shame, machined a new one,  still had the lathe and all the tooling set up luckily. So that went quite fast.  Then I recut all the teeth and this time my quill stayed in place. So this is pre-treated material  um comes at about something like 1300 newtons per square millimeter of cross section tensile  strength and it's relatively tough. It's tough material and it's quite hard to,  quite hard with a large form cutter on this lightweight machine to get it done.  But uh and and when you when you watch the footage of milling the the teeth you can see  quite a bit of movement in the mill. That's mainly the column, the vertical column twisting in itself.  The the indexing head itself is is rock solid. It has a large tapered plain bearing in front  and when you lock it the the bearing gets pulled into the taper seat and  locks locks the spindle solid. So the indexing head is not a weak point in this case.  Now we check the depth of our teeth. I already adjusted it and we do that by inserting a pin  in here and we measure against the diameter the outer diameter of the gear.  And I know from the CAD drawing that the height from the OD of the gear  to the top of the pin should be about 1.1 millimeters.  So the OD of the gear is 22 millimeters and we read 23.11314 here on the micrometer. So 23.14  minus 22 is 1.14. And when we look at the drawing I inserted a pin here, a circle that  resembles a four millimeter dowel pin or gauge pin. And I dimensioned off the top of the pin  which is 12.14 millimeters. That's the way this gear was modeled and I put the pin in.  And it's easy to measure because this gear has an uneven number of teeth so I can measure from  top dead center pin against the center of the pin. So I measure from the center of the pin  to the center of the pin. And I measure from the center of the pin to the center of the pin.  So I can measure from top dead center pin against the OD of the gear. And the difference  between the OD and the top dead center is 1.14 and that's what we measured. So  hit my dimensions quite okay. If the gear had an even number I couldn't measure against the OD  on the other side of the pin. I would need two pins and measure from pin to pin. I cut off the  gear from its stock. Now I'm holding in a 22 millimeter collet which is the OD of the gear.  In this case as I machined the OD of the blank and I indicated it true and I know that it ran  true when I cut the gears I can use the OD of the gear to hold on to it and know that I'm running  true. So I'm using part of tool two millimeter wide inserted parting tool  to split the gear in two separate pinions now.  And this starts obviously out as a heavy interrupted cut.  So  okay parted off almost completely. I don't want to  have the gear drop free and roll all over the place. So I'll leave usually a small  rest of material and just break it off. Almost last step is to cut a three millimeter keyway  in here. I have a three millimeter slotting tool in the quill of the machine and the spindle.  It's aligned and in the x direction so it's cutting correctly.  I already did the first one so I'm already centered over my part.  And now it's just a matter of stepping over, taking a cut, stepping over. You have seen me  doing this numerous times. I'm stepping over about 50 micron per pass.  And you might notice that I did not lock the spindle against rotation.  And the simple reason why is because in this case absolutely not necessary.  This tool cuts on center it's square and there is no force in the cut that tends to turn the tool.  There is no rotational component in this cut. So you align it and then you just leave it alone.  And now I'm not worried about wearing out the quill, the quill bore of the mill.  The cutting forces with this process are very light. The tool is ground so the  axial force comes in very close to the center line of the quill. It's only a very very light cut.  And running a large fly cutter with a very long extended quill on  something like a bridge port is probably way worse for the machine than this.  So I zeroed out the dial caliper, the digital caliper on the bore diameter. So it's  zero at its diameter and I know the height of the key slot from my CAD model that I got. So  I can measure it like this.  And it should be 0.6 millimeters and we got 0.63. So we're good. And there we go.  Two gears with three millimeter very shallow key slots. Don't comment on the design. It's  customer design. I know the background behind this design and there are very strict  size and room and distance between the shaft restrictions. And we couldn't figure out a  better way than this. This has to do with the prototype so we're going with it.  A 9 teeth module 2 gear is not the ideal solution but it's all we can do right now. So we're trying  this. And you get some gear cutting and machining footage. So it's a win-win-win-win I guess.  Win I guess. Okay here is the slotting tool. I ground it to three millimeter width in front here  then I relieved all this material here just by in the thickness. So in front here it's  at three millimeter. That's that's the cutting end and the relief jank is only 2.4.  This surface here is a little bit tapered to the back. Here it's three millimeter and back here  it's less. I put about half a degree of back taper on here and back here it's only 2.8  and in front as I mentioned it's three millimeters.  A little bit of positive rake here so it's cutting. So it's cutting a little bit softer.  Don't make this angle too big otherwise the tool will tend to dig into the work.  This is about three or four degrees. And here a little bit of clearance angle so it doesn't  rub when it goes down like this. One, two, three degrees. That's fine. As usual when I do slotting  I put a shaft collar on here so the tool doesn't doesn't get pushed up into the spindle of the mill  or into the collar. So while we're here we can look at some of my slotting tools that I ground  in the recent time. This is a very narrow slotting tool. This is a 1.7 millimeter slot  and I use this just to cut a clamping slot.  So this is my vice stop and I use this slotting tool here to cut this blind slot here which goes  from here to here and doesn't that exit so it's not a band sawable or a circular sawable slit.  A little more elegant than an open-ended slot for a clamping situation and there's just a  pinch screw that pulls it together and holds my my vice stop together. Looks kind of clean.  A 60 degree slotting tool with a one millimeter land. This one was for a spline drive. I did a video on that.  60 degree with a 0.2 millimeter land on here. This was used to cut the spline drive  sockets quite some time ago.  A large five millimeter keyway tool. So this last slotting tool, this is probably the coolest.  This is a carbide shank, solid carbide, all the way up to here and you can see  the braze joint, the silver solder joint and I have a piece of high-speed steel cobalt 10  silver soldered onto the end of the shank and ground into shape. It has the same  small cutting angle, relief angles in all directions but it has a solid carbide shank  which is three times stiffer than a steel shank and I needed this because I was slotting all the  way, this whole length in steel, five millimeter wide. That five millimeter width is probably  almost the limit what I'm comfortable to do on this mill in one pass and otherwise I would use  a three millimeter slotting tool first and then take the tool out and put in, for example,  an eight millimeter tool. So it reduces the cutting forces. What works pretty bad  is stepping over with a slotting tool. That's bad. These tools are very stiff in this direction  because it's a very large cross-section here but in this direction, side to side,  they're very weak because very thin cross-section.  So stepping over to the side usually ends with a very shitty,  with a very bad keyway, bell mouths on the start and just not a good job.  Better use increasingly larger slotting tools. So that's slotting tools and I keep them around  when I'm finished with them. So, for the next job.  So  while I deburred the holes in the gear, I thought I could do a little bit of content on  countersinks. I have four types of countersinks here. These are the common ones that I tend to  use. These are the single flute with the cross hole. These are really only good for light deburring.  They are not for doing a proper countersink in my mind. They work exceptionally well in a  cordless drill. I don't like them on a machine tool very much. I just don't like them too much.  Standard three flute countersink. That's what a lot of people are familiar with.  Evenly spaced three flutes, high speed steel, work very well. You run them relatively slow  and you feed them relatively hard and they will leave a very nice countersink, usually.  They can be troublesome. Sometimes you have just a situation, a setup that is not cooperative.  You get chatter or out of round countersink stuff like that can happen. Takes a little bit of  practice and feeling for these things. Next step up is basically the same but with  unevenly spaced flutes. These have a tendency of almost never chattering.  Very expensive though. Coded. I bought this years ago and it's still perfectly sharp.  When you look at the coding on a microscope it's still fine.  Worth its money. And then the coolest one is probably this one here.  So this is a normal, this is a three fluter too.  But it has spiral flutes. Goring makes these. Goring Spiral.  They are called. They are not cheap. I will say that. But they are not that expensive that you  might think. So these are really cool. They cut very free. The flutes are uneven spaced. When you  look at the size of the flutes they are not the same all the way around. And due to the  spiral geometry they cut so soft. Very little cutting pressure needed. Even in something like  a 303 stainless or even a 316 stainless. If you run it at a slow speed it will not chatter. You  give it a little bit of pressure and it will just cut through. Nice countersink. These are brilliant.  So that's my five cents on countersinks. It's basically like this. Okayish. Okay. Very okay.  Super okay. Something like that. These are really cool. Okay. Got the parts finished.  Large gears have been machined and drilled. Machined and bored out and drilled.  And the small ones machined completely from scratch. As per request of the customer we added  an M3 set screw thread for a set screw. Opposing side of the keyway. We will see how these hold up.  So at least they run quite okayish on each other. The geometry on these is probably completely off  now as we went with a way smaller tooth count than the cutter is actually designed for. But  for a test part it probably will work out fine. So hope you enjoyed. Thank you all for watching.  And I'll be back. 