 Okay, everybody. Well, welcome. This is going to be a really, really fun phase. I've been  looking forward to this for quite some time. This is inking, and inking is a very broad  subject. It's a subject that encompasses, you know, brush, quill, ballpoint pen, and  it can be also Sumi brush inking. We could do calligraphic brush inking. There's all  kinds of ways to do inking, and inking's been a very popular medium for centuries. Extremely  popular towards the end of the 1800s when you had people like Joseph Clement Cole. Some  of my favorites, Franklin Booth, Montgomery Flagg, Edwin Austin Abbey. We get into more  modern like Frazetta and Wrightson and all these guys. So, I love traditional inking.  I'm going to go through some samples just to kind of get you inspired and excited  about this medium. We're going to start with the most simple of the three tools we'll be  using, which is ballpoint pen. And then we'll move to quill, and then we'll move to brush,  and then we'll marry the two together, and we'll have a nice understanding of the value of inking.  Inking is really a calligraphic medium. It's also a very unforgiving medium. One of the  most unforgiving you can't erase, similar to watercolor or some of the other ones.  And so, it cultivates a directness in the way you work, a design on the fly kind of calligraphy  that you couldn't really put in place that many other ways that I can think of. So, this is a  really wonderful opportunity. It's a training medium. The medium, I kind of liken it to Latin  because it's kind of a dead language, but it's a very helpful language. So, I see very few people  teaching it anymore. I see very few people teaching it well, anyway, in that old traditional manner.  So, my goal will be to bring to you about 30 hours of inking demonstration  of everything that I can think of that I've learned over the last 30 years or so.  So, now, inking is not my primary medium, but it is one that I use a lot. I use it as a sketch  medium. I use it to explore design, vignetting, things like that. So, if you look at this page  right here, we've got a little architectural vignette up here in the corner. And how you end  this drawing, vignette means to prematurely end a drawing in an attractive manner. You may remember  me saying that in some other phase. But you can see there's a weather to go with or against the  form, crosshatching, deep crosshatching to make it look more like a deep shadow or spreading the  lines apart. And we'll talk about this in a minute when I demonstrate the basic use of this tool.  Right now, I'm just showing you examples that will hopefully get you excited. We got a little  anatomy study down here. So, this is a vignette page with a smattering. It doesn't have a subject  to it. I think it was just demonstrating in class. So, I'm going to run through these pretty quick  so we can stay on point. I've got a lot to show you. So, yeah. And now, here is freehand perspective  where we're actually doing little vignettes of architectural, you know, castles and, you know,  more Papua New Guinea type, you know. And then over here, we have like France or some street scene in  Europe, China down here. And you're just freehanding your vanishing points perspective. So, you're  learning how to sketch perspective without using it so technically, right? And that's something  that's very difficult. Sometimes, you have to come to that through technical training in perspective  first, then sketching or vice back and forth between those two because it does help to have a  formal understanding of perspective. And you can go over and you can take Eric's and some of my  dad's classes to learn more about perspective. And it'll be kind of interthread or threaded through  a lot of these phases. So, these are the ones I've kind of grabbed out of my flat file. And they're  just examples of various things that I sketch when I'm studying or when I'm trying to memorize  information. It could be anatomical information like the leg up here or the back of this guy  standing here. There's probably an invented figure here, an invented head down here. So, it allows me  to see what kind of retained knowledge I've gained from other phases, from other disciplines that I've  studied, anatomical with charcoal, anatomical with ballpoint pen. I mean, there's lots of ways you can  approach studying this stuff. And we're trying to show you as many solid examples of that as possible.  Here's an example of a page. Again, we've got some dragons in here. I could be drawing anything  from dragons to anatomy. A lot of times you'll see anatomy being a common theme because I'm  very interested in it and it's one of my favorite areas. But you also see lots of little head  inventions, just little heads that I'm making up. It could be a character for a comic, could be  concepting. If you're a visual development artist or an artist that's going into storyboarding,  it's a great medium, great thing to learn how to do. It'll help you in all areas, your oil painting,  digital painting, anything. It's design. I think I did this one online as a Friday Night Live and  it was a really cool pen and ink sketch of a Frazetta. And I did it, yeah, it was, you know,  did it while I was chatting and talking to people and stuff. So, it's got a really nice feel though,  a nice vignette feel. It's not exactly like Frazettas, but it is got a lot of that Frazetta  feel, flavor. It's one of my favorites for design, calligraphy, idealization of form.  Here's another page of Frazettas, vignettes of arms, legs, backs, hands, learning musculature,  learning how to exaggerate musculature, learning how to accentuate, doing it in a very direct  medium where you have to commit to your strokes, commit to what you're thinking, commit to what  you're learning. And that's one thing that I think you'll find with ballpoint pen is it's an  incredibly poignant and deliberate medium where we have to premeditate our moves, similar to  a very strategic type medium, I would say. Something like playing chess,  where you're thinking about your moves, you're countering your moves, you're thinking about  what's going to happen next because you don't have the ability to erase it like we do in lots  of other mediums. So, that's a little smattering there. And then I'm just going to go through some  various sketchbooks. Again, more Frazetta, really nice page of legs and arms, just a little made-up  figure, you know, just kind of, again, doodling. This is just a normal sketchbook of mine. You  might see a little bit of everything in here from, again, and this is an invented page on the  right, Frazetta on the left, probably warmed up with Frazetta and then did some little made-up  figures. This is my dad's sketchbooking class. I took it, and this will dovetail nicely with  sketchbooking phase. And this is kind of, I may or may not do part of that, but my dad, Lucas and  Eric all did some, and I'll be doing kind of the same thing in this phase here. So, maybe I will,  maybe I won't, but you'll get my version of it in this class. So, this is, I think he gave us a  bunch of reference. It was on World War II, and our job was to create a vignette page out of it.  So, to take, you know, five, ten pieces of reference and create some kind of page, sketch  page, that had a theme. And how you designed it was up to you, how you did it. So, this is just  kind of an example of what I came up with. And again, it was just done in class, just playing  around. This was a demo in, I think, class as well for Ballpoint Pen, you know, some invented heads.  Also, another thing you'll be seeing today, these are some examples of things you will be seeing me  kind of do, are these, you know, just again, this was a photo I had, and I kind of invented a balloon  up in the top, just to kind of sensationalize, make it a little bit more romantic. And I just  had some fun with it, okay? So, when sketchbooking is a fun medium, it's a medium where you just  explore. Here's a little invented figure, and very nice, got a great calligraphy. It has a little bit  of a Claire Windling look to it, or maybe even a mooka. And the whimsical line in here, and how  I'm designing around the shadows and within the shadows, rather than just filling it in generically,  I'm letting my strokes create a very calligraphic, lyrical quality to them, which gives a really  nice aesthetic feel, which means it looks good. And again, whenever we draw anything, I don't care  whether it's this hand indication here, where the knuckles, you got an index finger, and then the  rest of the hand, very Bridgman, very Frazetta. So, I'm drawing upon my knowledge from those areas,  bringing it into this drawing. I could have some Riley rhythms in there, all kinds of, you know,  some, like I said, mooka, maybe some lumas coming in. This stuff is so amazingly varied.  This is a Dean Cornwell vignette demo. Just a little invented head. Here's another theme where  I think we had witches or warlocks or something, and it was a vignette page I created in my dad's  class for that. And it may be, you know, each one of these might be a little 10, 15-minute sketch.  Some Mad Max stuff, where I was just sketching cars and guys from that movie. A little bit of  Phil Hale in here. I'm another big fan of him. I love his design sense. Phil's kind of a little  more obscure. He's a comic artist, but also can hold his own in almost anything. So, anyway,  that's kind of this one. I'm not going to go through too much more of that, because some  of the exercises for today are in that book as well. A couple other ones I want to show you.  One of them is an anatomy sketchbook, and this is one that I use primarily only for studying anatomy,  this particular sketchbook. So, we'll have, again, some Frazetta stuff in there.  We'll have, I'm trying to think here. I kind of bookmarked the ones that were more inking,  because there's a lot of graphite in here, which is not a problem. But, you know, some of them will  just be arms like this, where I'm studying from Bridgman, and I'm going in, and rather than doing  it in charcoal or maybe graphite, I'm going through and doing it with ballpoint pen. So,  you're going to be able to see a lot of uses for ballpoint pen. Pen is an explorative medium for me.  I memorize information with it. I design calligraphy with it. I build my dexterity with  it. I develop a more keen eye and sense of knowledge with it. So, it's a very, very beautiful  medium to study in. Some more Frazetta legs, and again, I try different pens. Some of these  are Zebra. Some of these are just, you know, like Bic or even Paper Mate. They're just simple pens.  Like, this pen is just a standard pen you would use in high school, and you can do some beautiful  stuff with it. We have more fancy pens, and we'll go through pens in a moment to show you  all the different varieties and stuff we had to look forward to. So, again, just different pens.  This is a little Micron pen, Burnt Sienna, kind of a brown. I like sketching in that a lot of times.  Whether it's blue, brown, black, it doesn't really matter, but I have certain ones that  I have an affinity for that I enjoy. So, I use those pens, and you'll find your own.  I'll show you the ones I use, but that does not mean that you need to go out and  always use those or race around trying to use that stuff. So, what would we use ballpoint pen  for? Well, we use it, again, like I said, to explore ideas. So, let's say I'm in my sketchbook, and I'm looking  at trying to draw some ideas for maybe a character for a comic or a concept for a  movie I'm working on that has centaurs in it or something. Now, you may not be a concept, you may  be a fine artist, or it doesn't matter. You know, who cares if you're concepting for DreamWorks or  you're concepting for a fine art show coming up on Western art or something, or, you know,  landscapes. It's all interrelated. So, these are some cool little Micron sketches on gray  paper where I used whiteout, you know, like cheap whiteout that you get for high school, and I went  around and I highlighted it to pop certain things forward, and that's just a little another little  sketch technique that you can play around with. It's really wonderful, and you'll see a number of  these that I was doing because I love centaurs. I like horses, and I like anatomy, human anatomy. So,  I was kind of building off of Heinrich Klee, who was also a wonderful inker that did a lot  of whimsical subject matter, lyrical. He was also kind of a satirist. Frazetta borrowed a lot from  him, his concepts and stuff. So, just another neat guy to think about. This is a cool page  of dinosaurs and heads and, you know, I mean, I've got everything from, I think,  Jim Buscema, who's a comic artist, to some Jurassic Park stuff mixed with some mooka,  or some maybe Alma Tadema mixed with, I think, this was a Bridgman little vignette down here  with some Claire Windling. So, I mean, in this page alone, you have so much learning happening.  I'm learning how to design like Cornwell. I'm learning how to take some of the stuff I like  from Claire Windling. I'm inventing figures using the information I'm learning from that. I'm coming  over here and designing this T-Rex, which is more of an, you know, I've got to work my animal  anatomy, but I start to think about, you know, joints and, you know, all this stuff that we  learn in other things. So, everything's cross-platforming. Everything's moving in and out  of each other. And that's the main thing we need to remember. You're going to see a lot of inking  tutorials out there. You're going to see a lot of people telling you different things. Take them  with a grain of salt. They're just springboards from which you to work off of. You know, I'll  show you my technique, and it's going to differ from some other guy's technique or girl's technique,  and you're just going to have to pick the ones that work best for you. But the main thing is,  is that I'm showing you that this is a way that you learn, you memorize. So, sketching, you can  take it anywhere. You can take it on a plane with you. You can have a ballpoint pen and a sketchpad  with you anywhere you go. You can sketch people sitting at Starbucks. You can, I mean, you can do  all kinds of wonderful things if you're disciplined enough and you just have the wherewithal to say,  yeah, I'm going to go do that. So, anyway, a lot of this stuff is kind of redundant, just nice  sketches. I'm going to be doing a ton of these for you today. So, rather than bore you with endless,  you know, things like that, let's move on to materials. Now, material, paper-wise, you just  saw as I was pulling out all those different sketches. I mean, there's toned paper. There's  bristles. There's just sketch paper, general sketch paper, which could be any number of things.  Don't worry about it. I mean, play around. Buy a bunch of different sketch pads. Buy a bunch of  different papers. In the material aspect of the PDF for this, you'll have a list of maybe some  general sources you can go to. One of them is jetpens.com, and they carry a lot of quill stuff,  brush inking material, and we'll get into all that when we do quill and brush. Each one will  be separated out, and I'll show you the particulars of each one of them, so I'm not going to get too  far ahead of myself here. These little Micron pens, Micron .005. This is the burnt sienna ones,  the brown ones, and they come in different, you know, there's a 01.005, which is smaller,  and as you go up in the numbers, they get a little larger. So, I've got a couple different  varieties there of that pen, which I'll use, and I'm just going to, you know, move through the  different pens because each pen will make you draw a little differently, will handle the paper a  little differently. So, it takes some experimenting. It takes some time to get really familiar with any  medium. These are the Hi-Tec-C pens. I like them a lot. Their Pilot is the brand, Hi-Tec-C, and this  is a .3 or an 03, and this is a .4. So, again, the numbers, as they get smaller, the tips get smaller,  and as they get larger, they get a little bit thicker and a little bit different. So, you  might want to try a bunch of varieties of those. You've got your normal Bic and Papermate. So,  here's a FedEx Office, and that'll work fine. Here's a Papermate, doesn't matter. Any of those  ballpoint pens that you used to use in high school to take notes with would be fine as well. Here's  some pens that, here's a brush pen. So, it's a pen that has a little bit more calligraphic tip on it.  I may do one drawing with that. This is not really, that kind of starts to branch into brush inking,  and we don't want to really mix these up too much. Some of these just have different tips,  like this is a wider, fatter tip pen. It's a Zebra, and it can be nice for laying in  thicker areas in a sketch, depending on what kind of sketch look you're going for.  Here's a technical drawing pen, and it's just really fine. Again, doesn't matter. There's a  lot of great options out there, and then you have the ballpoint pens that are a little bit more,  I don't know, fluid. Things like this Pentel Technica Hybrid, a fancy name for whatever,  just sounds cool. But these ones will lay down ink a little bit thicker, a little bit more wet  than, say, the Papermates and stuff like that. So, it really depends on kind of what you want,  what you like, what you're into. These are all things that we have to just kind of play around  with and explore. Now, I'm going to kind of use these little dots, these Staedtler sticky dots,  like they're basically drafting dots, and it just helps keep your stuff down if you're doing like  labors or tracings. 