 So let's talk about your mouth. Have you ever really thought about your mouth? Because  it's pretty amazing! People have got all these articulators, all these moving parts,  that work together to make the huge variety of sounds that we use for language. You use  incredible finesse and control to perform the urgent job of transforming your thoughts  into words. And today, we're going to talk about just what those articulators do.  I'm Moti Lieberman, and this is the Ling Space.  Welcome to the Ling Space.  There are different ways to count, but at the very least, there are over 100 consonant  sounds in the world. And depending on your dialect of English, you might have a different  number, but for my variety, I've got 24.  Linguists have come up with specific symbols for all of them, called the International  Phonetic Alphabet, or IPA, and stuck them together in cool charts, like this. We saw  these in episode 12, but let's look into what these cool little symbols mean in more  detail.  We're going to stick with the consonant chart for today, and come back to the vowel  chart in a later episode.  The consonant chart may look scary, but there's actually a whole system there. The columns  are for place of articulation. These show where in the vocal tract the sound is crafted,  like in your throat, at your soft palate, between your teeth, and so on.  You can see there's a lot of different places, and that's because even though the inside  of your mouth might not be a large area, we've divided it up into tiny little phonetic territories.  The rose, on the other hand, tells about manner of articulation, or the particular way that  the air interacts with your mouth bits to make the sound. You can let the air through  free and easy, or only angry, hissy streams of it, or just stop it completely.  The order the IPA chart is written in tells us how to make the sounds, too. The further  to the left you go, the further forward in the vocal tract the sound is pronounced. For  example, up at the top left here, we have pə, which is a bilabial stop. So it's made  with both of your lips, bilabial, and the air doesn't make it out of your vocal tract  at all. Your lips just outright plug it up. Just try saying a pə without a vowel after  it...see? No error.  And because your lips are all the way at the end of the vocal tract, the bilabial sounds  are found at the left edge of the chart.  When you go back from your lips, you find your teeth, and so dental sounds are the next  stop. Labial dental sounds use both the lips and teeth, so sounds like fə and və qualify.  On the other hand, interdental sounds, like thə and thə, are made by putting your tongue  in between your teeth.  The nice thing about consonants this far forward is that it's really easy to see how you  make them. You can see the f or the l in action. If you keep working your way down the vocal  tract, you'll hit a few more places of articulation.  One pretty useful one you might not know about is the alveolar ridge, that curvy slope  right behind your front teeth, just at the beginning of the roof of your mouth. You can  make all kinds of really common consonants there, like l or s or n. In fact, more kinds  of consonants are made at the alveolar ridge than at any other place. Just about any way  you can make a consonant, you can do it at the alveolar ridge.  Post-alveolar sounds like ʃ are made just a little back from the alveolar ridge, but  not all the way to the hard palate. You want to use all the space, after all. So you go  and make some ʃ sounds.  The next place on the chart is actually a little bit different. It's actually smuggling  a manner of making consonants into the columns meant for place. Retroflex sounds involve  curling the tongue up to make the closure against the top of the mouth, so to make sounds  like də or shə or ɯ. They don't really show up in English, but they're pretty common  cross-linguistically. You get them in languages like Tamil, Hausa, and Polish. And we list  them here because the folding back still puts the tongue in the same general place as your  regular təs and nəs. It's just the other side of the tongue.  OK, now we're getting nice and far back in the mouth, to sounds that you make with  the main body of your tongue. So palatal sounds are made at the hard palate, that solid place  at the top of your mouth. We don't have a ton of these in English, either, but if  you go jə, then that's where palatal sounds live. We also have the hɪ sound in German  words like ich or mich placed here. What we do have in English, though, are wieler  sounds, or sounds that are made against the soft palate, or wieler. That's the squishy  bit that's right behind the hard palate. Here's where our kəs and gəs hang out.  Also our ngs, which is the sound that you get at the end of words like sing or raw.  It might seem like these are two separate sounds, but if you feel how your mouth moves  when you make a word like pang, you'll notice that your tongue never goes anywhere  near the alveolar ridge. It's all up at the back, pillowing up against the soft palate.  Now, our next column is for uvular sounds. They're made against that little dangly  punching bag thing at the back of your throat, the uvula. These don't exist in English  at all, but we make the French hə back there, as well as sounds like qə and hə, which exist  in languages from Aleut to Arabic.  Finally, we have sounds that are made even further down, like right in the throat. Some  of these, like the pharyngeal and epiglottal sounds, are made by constricting the airflow  just above the vocal folds in the larynx. But the farthest back place you can make a  consonant is in the larynx itself. These are known as glottal sounds, from the technical  term glottis, the space that appears between the vocal folds when they open for air to  pass through.  We've got a couple of these sounds in English. One is hə, which is a glottal fricative.  But the other you might not have even noticed is a sound before. It's the sudden stop  in the middle of a word, like uh-oh, or the sound before nn in botn. This is called a  glottal stop, and even though it's not widespread in English, it's still part of our inventory  of sounds.  OK, so those are all the places of articulation. These are the columns in our table, from left  to right in the chart, and from front to back in our mouths.  Now, let's go back and check out what rows we have. They represent the different manners  of articulation, or the way that you can cut up the airflow as it passes through your vocal  tract. These generally go in the chart, from most closed to most open, so from top to bottom.  So up top, we have plosives, which are also known as stops. Like you'd guess from the  name, these are pronounced by stopping the air completely, and then letting it go again.  Our old friends pə, tə, and kə are here, as well as bə, də, and gə. And of course,  there are other stops, too, like the qə that we talked about earlier.  Whenever you're pushing air from your lungs, and it can't escape from your mouth until  you let go, that's a stop.  But what if you stop air from getting out of your mouth, but you leave another escape  route? Like, say, through your nose?  Down one row, we have the nasals, your ns and ns, but also the ng we saw before. Here,  the air only comes out of your nose. There's a complete stop in your mouth, but you lower  your soft palate, and the air rushes out the only way it can, through your nasal cavity.  That's why, when you have a cold, and your nose is plugged up, your ns sound a lot like  dəs.  Də and nə are the same sound, if you take your nose away.  The next rows are for sounds that are like stops, but just executed really rapidly. Trills  involve closing and opening the airflow multiple times quickly in the same place, just drumming  one articulator against another. So it's like the alveolar trill that you get in Spanish  for rr, like in a word like burro or donkey. Or the bilabial trill rr, which shows up in  the ass word for jaw, sivi.  Taps, also known as flaps, are just like a trill, except instead of repeating the movement  over and over, you just do it once. The də sound in butter is a flap, for example, as  is the middle consonant in the Japanese word for spicy, karai.  The next bunch of sounds finally get away from total closure of the mouth, and they're  known as fricatives. Fricatives are noisy sounds. The air does come out, unlike with  plosives, but it is mostly obstructed still, so it comes out in a pretty hissy kind of  way.  You can get these guys at pretty much every place of articulation. A few nice examples  are ff and vv, which are labiodental fricatives, or ss and zz, which are alveolar ones.  The most free-flowing kind of consonants are known as approximants. For these sounds, air  can make it up pretty easily from the lungs and out of the mouth, but it's not quite  as smooth a ride as it is with vowels, where the air is super free.  Now, English has three regular approximants, rr, jj, and ww. These sounds have very strong  acoustic profiles. They're loud and easy to hear. J and ww are almost exactly the same  as the vowels i and ɜ, just said really quickly. Just hold a j and c.  But they behave basically like consonants for how languages treat them.  You'll note that there are two other rows there as well, for lateral fricatives and  approximants. What's that lateral thing about? Well, usually, air just flows right  out through the middle of our mouths. But that's not the only way for it to go.  You can also block up the middle of the mouth, but curl down the sides of your tongue, and  let the air escape that way. That's why these sounds are known as laterals. They've  got side flow. Just feel what you do with your tongue for ul in English, like in lucky.  Sides down, right? But if they don't go all the way down, you can get tight, fricative-style  flow around the sides of the tongue, like in the Welsh word for the other, chach.  Finally, maybe you've noticed that we've been pairing up sounds together on the chart,  like ff and vv, or ss and zz. That's because there's one other way in which sounds can  differ, besides place and manner of articulation. Sounds can also be voiced or voiceless, depending  on whether your vocal folds are vibrating or not while you say them.  Now, you can see this for yourself. Just put your fingers here on your throat, and then  say, sssss. Now, you might hear a little bit of hissing in your mouth, but that's where  it ends, right? Okay, now switch to zzzzzz. Woah, now your throat is all vibrating too!  That's because the zz sound is voiced, and ss is voiceless.  Now, the same is true for th and thgg. Try it out, I'll wait.  As huge as the IPA chart can seem, it really covers only a fraction of the sounds that  human language contains. We can add a whole bunch of diacritics, or symbols on or next  to the letter to show exactly how you're pronouncing things. Now, if you're curious  about what those look like, we have some information about it back on our website. But you can  see just how much we can capture using only these three dimensions – where we pronounce  things, how much air we let through, and whether we're vibrating while we do it. We only  need three factors to show you just how amazing your mouth really is.  So we've reached the end of the Ling Space for this week. If you correctly read the places  of my articulators, you learned that the IPA chart is organized by place and manner  of articulation, that we divide up the inside of our mouth into tiny little regions, from  the lips back to the larynx, that we distinguish different consonants based on how much air  can escape from the vocal tract and how it gets out, and that we can make even more sounds  by vibrating our vocal folds while we talk.  The Ling Space is produced by me, Moti Lieberman. It's directed by Adèle-Elise Prévost,  and it's written by both of us. Our production assistant is Georges Coulombe, our music and  sound design is by Shane Turner, and our graphics team is atelierMUSE. We're down in the comments  below, or you can bring the discussion back over to our website, where we'll have some  extra material on this topic.  Check us out on Tumblr, Twitter, and Facebook, and if you want to keep expanding your own  personal Ling Space, please subscribe. And we'll see you next Wednesday. See ya'stok! 