 Hi, I'm Ben from Clive Coffee.  Making great espresso really comes down to two things.  Good technique and a good recipe.  We'll be going over Clive's recommendation for both.  While there are many ways to approach espresso, this process is the one we've found works  best to produce amazing results in the shortest amount of time.  Let's start with the basic recipe.  For espresso, you'll use 18 to 20 grams of ground coffee to produce 30 grams of liquid  espresso, roughly 1.5 ounces, in 25 to 30 seconds.  One more time, that's 18 to 20 grams of ground coffee in, to 30 grams, or 1.5 ounces of liquid  espresso out, in 25 to 30 seconds.  What determines the dose?  If you're using a spouted portafilter with a double basket like this, we recommend starting  with 18 grams.  If you're using a bottomless portafilter with a triple basket like this, we recommend starting  with 20 grams.  Also, we recommend using a scale, as it provides the easiest way to consistently pull great shots.  Just like different flours used for baking, ground coffee will look different day to day,  depending on the humidity in the air, the age of the coffee, and much more.  As espresso is such a concentrated, intense drink, even minor changes in the amount of  ground coffee or liquid espresso can have a big impact on flavor.  Now that we know our recipe, let's talk technique.  Step one, grinding your dose.  Before grinding coffee into the portafilter, use a towel to make sure the basket is clean  and dry.  Place your portafilter on a scale, and tare the scale.  If the portafilter is too large for your scale, simply use a tamping mat or other large surface  to extend the area of the scale.  Now grind coffee into the basket.  Place your portafilter back on the scale, to verify the weight of the coffee.  Again, we're looking for 18 grams of coffee in the double basket, and 20 grams of coffee  in the triple basket.  If you end up with less coffee than that, just grind a little more.  If there is too much ground coffee, use a small spoon to scoop out the excess.  Step two, distributing the coffee.  Now that we have the right amount of coffee, we need to make sure it is evenly distributed  in the basket.  Give the sides of the portafilter a few firm taps to level out the coffee in the basket.  Make sure that the coffee is not lumped to one side.  The goal is a level, even bed of coffee.  Once the bed is level, give the portafilter two firm taps against the counter.  This will settle any air pockets in the coffee.  In the end, your even, level bed of coffee should look like this.  Step three, tamping.  Our best advice regarding tamping is to keep it simple.  The goal is to compress the coffee so that no air pockets remain, and the bed is level  and even.  First, grab the tamp like you would a door handle.  Insert the tamp into the portafilter.  Apply roughly 20 to 30 pounds of pressure.  You'll know the coffee is fully compressed when you begin to feel the counter push back  against you.  The amount of force is not nearly as important as a consistent amount of pressure evenly  applied.  Before removing the tamper, we're going to double check that the tamp is level.  Lift up the portafilter with the tamper in.  You should be able to tell if the tamp is level based on the position of the tamp.  If it's off to one side like this, you'll have to adjust the tamp so it's level.  If it sits in the center like this, you're ready to pull your shot.  Clear any leftover ground coffee from the rim of the portafilter basket.  Step four, pulling the shot.  If your machine doesn't have a shot timer, now's the time to set your phone to its timer  function.  Flush water through the group head for two to three seconds prior to inserting the portafilter.  This will help clean the group head and help maintain the brewing temperature.  Insert your portafilter.  If you have a scale that fits under the group head, put the scale on the drip tray, place  your shot glasses on the scale, and hit tear.  If you don't have a scale, just place your shot glasses under the spouts of the portafilter.  Start brewing.  Once you hear the pump, start the timer.  Stop your shot when you've extracted 30 grams or 1.5 ounces of liquid, including the crema.  Check to see how long the shot took.  Remember, we're looking to get our target output in 25 to 30 seconds.  If the time was off, don't worry.  There's almost a 0% chance this will be perfect the first time.  If it took less than 25 seconds to extract 30 grams or 1.5 ounces, adjust your grind  finer.  If it took more than 30 seconds, adjust your grind slightly coarser.  Make sure to purge a small amount of coffee after you change your grind setting.  Small espresso grinders retain a small amount of coffee in the burrs, so we want to make  sure that your next shot reflects the accurate change in your grind setting.  Now repeat the process.  Grind, check your dose, distribute, tamp, pull your shot, check the time.  Keep making small adjustments, finer or coarser, until you hit the target output 18 to 20 grams  in, 30 grams out, in 25 to 30 seconds.  Go to Beadaholique.com for all of your beading supply needs! 