 Agile is a set of values and principles, yet people are constantly asking about Agile methodology.  If you want to know more about Agile values and principles, take a look at my video called  What is Agile?  In this video, we're going to try to answer What is Agile methodology?  This is a bit of a trick question.  A methodology is a body of methods, procedures, and rules for a particular discipline, but  Agile values and principles explicitly avoid prescribing any particular methods or procedures.  Agile doesn't specify methods.  Agile is not a methodology.  This is probably a surprise for many people, but if you really take the time to look at  the Agile values and principles, you won't find any methodology there.  Instead, you will find guidance on how to choose methods and procedures that will work  best for your team.  The Agile values and principles don't try to prescribe the way your team should work.  Instead, they focus on helping you and your team think and interact in ways that achieve  agility.  Agility is the ability to continually adapt, the ability to constantly make improvements  to the way you work.  Understanding this is important because it explains why Agile explicitly avoids being  a methodology.  If Agile specified a methodology, it would necessarily be, well, less Agile.  Less able to adapt to the specific circumstances of your team in your organization.  So instead of telling you explicitly what to do, Agile gives you some values and principles  that your team can use to decide what you should do.  So if Agile is not a methodology, what about all the specific things you hear about Agile  teams doing?  What about stand-up meetings, product demos, retrospectives, planning poker, etc.?  While Agile is not a methodology, there are a number of methodologies teams can use to  follow the Agile principles and values.  Take Scrum for instance.  Scrum specifies a number of specific ways for teams to work.  This includes things like having daily stand-ups, fixed-length sprints, product demos, and retrospectives.  Many teams find Scrum to be a very good way of following Agile values and principles.  It provides a powerful methodology that assists in following Agile.  But it is important to note that just following these ceremonies doesn't make a team Agile.  They have to be following these ceremonies because it helps them align with the Agile  values and principles.  As a side note, some people will argue that Scrum is a framework and thus more flexible  than a methodology.  But the line between the two is fairly fuzzy, nuanced, and often depends on whether or not  someone has negative connotations of the word methodology.  For the purposes of this discussion, I'm using methodology but in a positive sense.  Scrum gives you powerful methods and processes for getting work done.  Extreme programming is another methodology that you'll encounter in software development.  It includes a number of practices like test-driven development and pair programming.  The extreme programming methodology gives teams methods and processes that can be used  to follow Agile values and principles.  For example, Agile principles say that teams should leverage change as a competitive advantage.  XP practices give methods for writing software that enables this.  So why do people still refer to Agile as a methodology?  Usually because they are confusing Agile, the values and principles, with the methods  and methodologies people use to follow those principles.  If your team is truly trying to follow Agile principles and values, your methodology will  evolve over time as your team grows and adapts.  After all, that is what it means to be Agile.  It may seem like a small thing, but every like and every subscription is very appreciated.  If you'd like to show your support for the creation of more of these videos, please take  a few seconds to click on the like and subscribe.  If you want to know more about Agile, click here for a cartoon explaining the Agile principles and values.  Also, I have a book on getting started with Agile.  If you'd like a free copy, click over here.  Thanks for watching! 